
Log In to Brightspace

Your experience trying to log in to Brightspace for the first time may differ depending on how your organization has set up and is managing log in credentials. Your organization may have a Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication method implemented, where you can access all the sites in your organization using a single SSO portal. Alternatively, your organization may use a local log in setup where your administrator uses Brightspace to manage usernames and passwords.
Obtain your Brightspace credentials
Your log in experience differs depending on whether your organization uses SSO authentication or a local log in process to provide access to Brightspace. Therefore, D2L strongly recommends that you contact your system administrator or IT Support department if you want to:
Obtain a new username and password to log in to Brightspace for the first time, or
Recover your existing username or password.
Log Out of Brightspace
You can log out of Brightspace from the minibar.
To log out of Brightspace
On the minibar, click your username.
Click Log Out.
You have successfully logged out of Brightspace.



--------------------------------------------------


Change personal settings in Brightspace

You can keep your personal settings up to date by changing your Profile, Notifications, Account Settings and preferred language setting in Brightspace.
To change personal settings in Brightspace
Select your username and then select Profile.Figure: Select Profile to navigate to the Edit My User Profile page.
You can change the following settings:			Picture:Under your profile icon, click Change Picture.Figure: Select  Change Picture to update the picture used for your profile.Navigate to the location of the image you want to upload and select your profile picture.Figure: You can select an image either from your computer or from your locker by selecting the corresponding option.Note: The maximum image file size limit is 1 MB. For the best quality and proportions, upload an image with a width and height of 100 by 100 pixels. The accepted file formats are JPG, PNG, and GIF.Click Add.Figure: Select Add for confirmation to add the uploaded profile picture.Social Networks: In the LinkedIn field, enter the URL to your social network.Figure: Enter your LinkedIn profile URL into the LinkedIn field.Personal Info: Enter a Tagline and add your interests or hobbies.Note: All Personal Info fields have a character limit of 4,000 characters.Figure: You can flesh out your profile by adding additional Personal Info.
Click Save and Close to apply the new Profile settings and go back to your Course Homepage. Otherwise, click Save to stay on the Profile settings page.Figure: Click  Save and Close when you are finished.
Your profile settings are updated and saved.
Change notification settings 
Notifications enable you to customize what methods you want to use to receive notifications, such as SMS or Email, as well as what events will trigger notifications.
To change Notifications settings
Click your username and then select Notifications.Figure: Select Notifications to proceed.
You can optionally connect with your instructors and classmates and stay informed about course-related updates by downloading the Pulse App on the App Store or Google Play.
You can change the following Notifications settings:
Contact MethodsTo change your existing email address
Click Change your email settings.Select Use custom email, add your new email address, and then click Save.Note: Your organization sends all email notifications from Brightspace to the updated email address. Contact your system administrator for further assistance.To add your mobile number
Click Register your mobile number.Select the Country and the Mobile Carrier. Enter your Mobile Number and then click Save.Type in the Confirmation Code sent to your mobile number and then click Confirm.Summary of ActivityTo control how often you receive notifications about course-related activities, open the drop-down menu under How often? and select whether to receive notifications Daily, Weekly, or Never.Figure: Select your desired level of email summary notifications in How often?.Instant NotificationsTo set individual notifications for course-related components, select the preferred notification type beside each component. Ensure that you have confirmed your registered mobile number to receive notifications via SMS.	Note: To receive content-related individual notifications, use the Brightspace Pulse App or select the Email option notification type.Figure: You can select how you want to be notified (via SMS or Email) for various course-related components by selecting the corresponding box or boxes in Instant Notifications.Customize NotificationsSelect whether to receive grade value notifications from the Grades tool or receive future courses-related notifications.Figure: The option to set Customize Notifications.Exclude some coursesTo exclude receiving notifications from specific courses, click on the Manage my course exclusions link and then select the courses you want to exclude.
After reviewing all the details, click Save.
Your notification settings are updated and saved.
Change account settings
Account Settings enables you to set your personal pronouns, change Brightspace font settings, enable two factor authentication, enable assistive technologies such as screen reader, and more.
To change Account Settings
Click your username and then select Account Settings.Figure: Click Account Settings.
From the Account Settings tab you can change the following settings:
General SettingsDepending on your permissions, you can change your system email and password, and set up two factor authentication by selecting Enable Two Factor Authentication.PronounsTo include a pronoun to display in your profile or Classlist, select the Allow others to see my pronouns option. You can select pronouns that were recorded by your organization or type any different pronouns.Figure: You can use either the pronouns provided by your organization, or enter them into the text field.Font SettingsTo change the font size display, open the Font Size drop-down menu, then select the size.Figure: Select the desired Font Size from the drop-down menu.Reading ContentAn assistive technology such as a screen reader automatically marks content as read as you scroll it. To disable marking items as read, select Do not automatically mark items as read as the page scrolls.Video SettingsTo optimize video presentation for programmatically driven assistive technologies, select Optimize video presentation for programmatically driven assistive technologies.Locale & LanguageConfigure this option to change your locale and language preference. You can also change the default clock, date, number, and percentage format settings set by your organization. However, some courses may override your selections.Time Zone Click the drop-down button to select a new time zone from the list.
Note: When traveling outside your original continent or time zone, we recommend updating your continent and time zone settings to accurately reflect assignment and activity due dates.Signing InThis option allows you to configure your Online Status and Login Destination settings within Brightspace. For further information, click on the Which option should I choose? and Selecting your Login Destination links.Figure: Configure your Online Status and Login Destination settings.Application SettingsThis option allows third-party applications and services registered to your Brightspace account to access Brightspace on your behalf.Figure: The options to configure OAuth 2.0 and ID Key Authorization settings.Note: Any changes made on the Account Settings tab are saved automatically when you navigate to the Discussions tab.
On the Discussions tab you can change the following settings:
Personal SettingsDisplay SettingsEnabling this option will pin the Discussions List pane in the View Topic and View Thread pages.Figure: You can set whether to Always show the Discussions List pane in Display Settings.Default ViewSelect Grid View to display the discussion posts in a traditional grid view with post subjects shown in a grid.Select Reading View to display the discussion posts in reading view where the entire text of a post displays all posts.Figure: Select your Default Viewsettings.Reply SettingsSelecting this option includes the original post by default when composing a reply.Figure: You can set whether to Include original post in reply in Reply Settings.Subscription SettingsEnabling this option allows you to subscribe to the thread by default when creating a new thread.Figure: You can set whether to subscribe to a newly-created thread by default in Subscription Settings.
Grid View Settings
Default Threading Style
Selecting the Threaded option displays the topics grouped together when accessing them.
Selecting the Unthreaded option displays the default threading style used when accessing topics.Figure: Select your preferred Default Threading Style.
Display Settings
Show the preview paneEnabling this option displays the lower Preview pane in Grid View. If this option is unselected, clicking on a post in the Grid View will open the post in a pop-up window.
Show the search barEnabling this option displays the Search fields in Grid View.Figure: Select your preferred Display settings in Grid View Settings > Display Settings
Post Fields to DisplayEnabling this option displays the Post ID for posts in Grid View.Figure: You can set whether to Post Fields to Display.
Character LimitsEnabling this option allows you to limit the number of characters of the subject displayed for each post when browsing topics. The number of characters can be configured by entering an integer between 1 and 150 in the Subject Characters to Display field.Figure: You can Limit the number of characters of the subject to display in the post by selecting the box and setting the number of Subject Characters to Display.

After reviewing all the details, click Save and Close to apply the new Account Settings and go back to the Course Homepage. Otherwise, click Save to stay on the Account Settings page.
Your Account Settings are updated and saved.
Update preferred language settings
The User menu displays the currently selected language setting; however, you can change that option using the language settings accessible by clicking current preferred language. 
Only languages that are enabled by your organization are available for selection.
To change Language settings:
Click your username and then select the current preferred language.Figure: Select your current language to make changes to your preferred language. 
Browse to select your preferred language, then click Save. Note: Only languages that are enabled by your organization are available for selection.Figure: Select the language in the Set Your Preferred Language window.
Video: Manage Account Notifications



--------------------------------------------------


Navigate Brightspace and find your course

Easily find your online courses after logging in to Brightspace from either the Course Selector or the My Courses widget.
Note: If you log into Brightspace and cannot find the course you're looking for, you may not be enrolled in the course. If you cannot find or see a course in Brightspace, contact your instructor or your institution's Help Desk for further assistance. If you course is showing as available but cannot be accessed or clicked, your course's Start Date as set by your instructor has not begun and is preventing you from opening the course.
Find your courses through the Course Selector
Use the Course Selector to quickly locate courses in Brightspace.
To find courses through the Course Selector

Click on the Course Selector (waffle) icon at the top of the page.Figure: Organizational homepage with the Course Selector icon highlighted.


Select from the list of courses that you want to access.
Figure: Organizational homepage with expanded list of courses from the Course Selector.

The selected course homepage loads.
Find your course through the My Courses widget
Use the My Courses widget to review all your courses.
To find courses through the My Courses widget

Find the My Courses widget on your organizational homepage.Note: The My Courses widget is only available if your organization has enabled this widget. Contact your administrator for more information.


Find thumbnails of the courses that you are enrolled in and click on the one that you want to access.Note: Click View All Courses to expand the list if you do not see your course.Figure: The My Courses widget.

The selected course homepage loads.
Access and remove old courses from previous semesters
Your ability to access an old course is determined by the following prerequisites:

You are enrolled in the course


The course is set to Active


The course has no date restrictions


The current date is within the available date range of the course

This means that while you may be able to see your previous and upcoming courses on the home page or from the course selector, you likely cannot access those courses. To request access to an old course, contact your instructor.
To remove old courses
 Instructors should remove old courses from your view before a new semester starts. If you still see courses from previous semesters, you must contact your instructor for that course to remove it from your home page. Ask your instructor to de-activate the course. If your instructor isn't available, contact your institution's Help Desk and explain the issue. 
Video: How to Access and Remove Old Courses



--------------------------------------------------


Course Enrollments

Review the following headings to learn how to enroll, unenroll, and register for a course. Also, learn about missing courses on your Brightspace organizational homepage.
Enroll or register in a course
You can enroll or register in courses through your institution's course registration website or page. You cannot directly enroll in courses in Brightspace. Consult your institution for more information about this process.
Unenroll in a course
You can unenroll in courses through your institution's course registration website or page. You cannot directly unenroll in courses in Brightspace. Consult your institution for more information about this process.
Missing courses
If you course is missing, you may not be correctly enrolled in your course. To discuss your enrollment situation, contact your course instructor or institution help desk. You can also view your enrollment status on your institution's course enrollment page.
Another reason why your course may be missing is because your course is not visible until a specific date. If the start date for your course has passed or you are unsure about your course's start date and visibility restrictions, contact your course instructor.



--------------------------------------------------


Course homepage

Become familiar with your course through the homepage elements that are available to you.
Text-based navbar
The text-based course navbar uses text to describe the various Brightspace tools available to you.
Figure: Course homepage elements with a text-based navbar.
Icon-based navbar
The icon-based course navbar uses icons and text to describe the various Brightspace tools available to you.

Figure: Course homepage elements with an icon-based navbar.

Course Title: The name of the course offering.


Navbar: Access course materials and activities through navbar tool links.

Course Home: Brings you back to the main course homepage.


Content: Allows you to access course materials.


Assignments: Directs you to course assignment folders.


Discussions: Brings you to any course discussions to contribute to.


Quizzes: Leads you to assessments created by your instructor.


Classlist: Allows you to see the list of other users in the course, including other learners, your instructor, and any other teaching staff.


Grades: Directs you to the gradebook where you can find your marks from course activities.


Class Progress: Allows you to see your progress on course content and activities.


Course Tools: May contain any other tool that your instructor requires you to access during the duration of the course.Note: The navbar links may appear as text or icons depending on what your instructor has chosen for the course.



Calendar: Lists any important dates regarding course activities.


Work To Do: Displays any overdue and upcoming activities across all your courses.


Announcements: Displays any information that your instructor has posted for the entire class to see, including course updates and action items for you.

Video: Navigate Brightspace



--------------------------------------------------


Access course content using the ReadSpeaker docReader integration

Access course content using ReadSpeaker to seamlessly consume text-based content as an audio file.
Supported document types for ReadSpeaker docReader
  The ReadSpeaker DocReader integration provides audio rendering of supported document types in the Content tool.
If your organization has enabled this feature, you can hear audio playback of the following document types:
ePub (.epub)
Microsoft Excel (.xls, .xlsx)
Microsoft PowerPoint (.pps, .ppt, .pptx)
Microsoft Word (.doc, .docx)
OpenOffice/OpenDocument Presentation (.odp)
OpenOffice/OpenDocument Spreadsheet (.ods)
OpenOffice/OpenDocument Text (.odt)
Portable Document Format (.pdf)
Rich Text Format (.rtf)
When you select ReadSpeaker DocReader, a new content viewer appears with volume and playback controls.  Within a Content topic, on the Content viewer page, click Open DocReader in the topic context menu or on the page.

Figure: The Open DocReader option in the Content viewer topic context menu.



--------------------------------------------------


Use the Accessibility Checker on HTML-authored content

The Accessibility Checker ensures that the content you author in Brightspace Editor conforms to WCAG and Section 508 accessibility standards. The Accessibility Checker is available within the Brightspace Editor in Content, Widgets, Quizzes, Assignments, Calendar,  Discussions, and any other tools where a user can access the Editor.
To use Accessibility Checker

Enter HTML content in Brightspace Editor.


Click the Accessibility Checker icon in the Brightspace Editor toolbar to start the checker.
Figure: The Brightspace Editor toolbar with the Accessibility Checker highlighted.


If there are any compliance issues, read the report for suggestions on how to fix the issue.


After resolving your compliance issues, click Repair. If you do not want to resolve your compliance issues, click Ignore.
Figure:  The Accessibility Checker dialog showing a compliance issue with the Ignore and Repair options.

Your HTML file is  compliant with WCAG and Section 508 accessibility standards.



--------------------------------------------------


Use Anthology Ally (previously Blackboard Ally) to view alternative accessible formats of content

Anthology Ally is a content accessibility service licensed directly from Anthology. It generates alternative accessible formats for files in the course content. In addition to the original format, Anthology Ally provides helps institutions to provide all learners access to content with a range of alternative formats, including:
Mobile-friendly HTML
Audio (mp3)
ePub
Electronic Braille
Beeline Reader
OCRd PDF
Microsoft Immersive Reader
Translated versions
Note: If there is metadata or embedded security in a document, you are unable to create alternative accessible formats. 
To view an alternative accessible format in a course module
Click to select a document from a course module.
Click Alternative formats.Figure: The alternative download formats list in Anthology Ally.
Select an alternative format from the available list. 
Refer to Anthology Ally Helpfor more information.



--------------------------------------------------


Video Note Automatic Captioning

In Brightspace Core, you can use Video Note to automatically transcribe video note recording as they are uploaded, as well as provide captions to videos without the need to manually create and upload a .vvt file. Updates to the user interface allow you to modify the auto-generated transcript to correct any inaccuracies and increase the accessibility of video notes.
Captions can be created in the following languages:
US English (en-US)
British English (en-GB)
Canadian French (fr-CA)
German (de-DE)
Brazilian Portuguese (pt-BR)
Korean (ko-KR)
Italian (it-IT)
Spanish (es-MX) - If not available, US Spanish (es-US) is used
Modern Standard Arabic (ar-SA)
Chinese Mandarin - Mainland (zh-CN)
Russian (ru-RU)
Japanese (ja-JP)
Turkish (tr-TR)
Dutch (nl-NL)
Add closed captions to a video note
Manually add closed captions to a video note using a configured .vtt file.
To manually add closed captions to a video note
Create a video note in Brightspace Editor using Insert Stuff.

Using a text editing program such as Notepad (PC), or TextEdit (Mac) create a .vtt file with the following format:WEBVTT [Required on first line to indicate file type]00:01.000 --> 00:03.000 [start and end timestamp in minutes:seconds.milliseconds]Insert caption text here [Type the captions you want displayed during this portion of the video]00:04.000 --> 00:08.000Insert caption text here.00:09:000 --> 00:14.000Insert caption text here.


Save the text file as a .vtt file by including .vtt at the end of the file name, and setting the file type to All files.


Return to Brightspace.

From Admin Tools, select Video Note Captions.

Search for the video note created in the previous steps and click it.


Click Choose File, locate the .vtt file created in the previous steps, and click Open.


Click Save Captions.


Click the Video Preview, and select the options menu (...).


Click Captions to change from Captions Off to Captions Default.


Play the video and confirm the closed captions are visible and display at the appropriate times.
Note: For more information on creating .vtt files, refer to How to Create A WebVTT File. Ensure you follow the formatting exactly or the captions won't display. You can use any compatible third-party captioning method to complete this process.





--------------------------------------------------


Assignments

 The Assignments tool enables you to upload and submit assignments directly into Brightspace. Simply upload your submission to the appropriate assignment and submit.
Note: If you cannot locate or access the Assignments tool, it may have another name. Contact your  instructor for more information.
Visual tour of the Assignments tool

Figure: The Assignments tool is organized into various sections, which are described below.

Click Assignments to access the Assignments tool.


Click View Historyto review your submission history. You can also sort results by assignment and assignment type.


Click an assignment in the list to add files, record audio, record video, add comments, and submit your assignment.


Review:

Completion Status: Lists a count of any submissions or files submitted for the assignment.


Score: Displays a grade or score if the submission was graded.


Evaluation Status: Displays feedback from your  instructor.


Due Date: Displays when your instructor has requested that you complete the assignment.






--------------------------------------------------


Awards

The My Awards tool enables  learners  to see merit-based awards granted by instructors of a course. There are two types of awards: Badges and Certificates.
Badges are awarded based on any criteria determined by the instructor. They are meant to provide digital markers that represent accomplishment throughout a course or program. Badges do not contribute to achieving a passing grade; however, badges are awarded for achievements that also can contribute to the type of work ethic that results in a passing grade. For example, an instructor might create a badge that is based on posting 15 discussion posts in the first month of a course, or on perfect attendance, or on academic excellence. These items are the types of trends that can help a learner to succeed in a course or program. 
Certificates are also awarded based on criteria determined by the instructor. Certificates are similar to Badges; however, they include a PDF that learners can print. Certificates typically indicate an official statement of certification or award at the end of a program, but can be awarded during the course for other criteria as well. Certificates can be awarded based on achieving a milestone that a learner can use for further academic or career success, such as passing a practical exam. Certificates also do not contribute to achieving a passing grade. 
You can view the awards you've earned and the awards available to be earned in the My Awards tool. All awards are displayed as images and you can click on an image to view more details. You might also be able to view awards in the Awards Leaderboard widget on your course homepage. 

Figure: An overview of the Awards page showing earned Badges in the My Awards tab.
Click Awards to access the My Awards tab.
The My Awards tab includes all previously-earned Badges and Certificates.
Navigate to the View Available Awards tab to see a complete list of awards you could earn. 
Use the search bar to find a desired award.
Use the filter to show Badges only, Certificates only or all types of your awards.
Add your awards from other courses to the page by selecting Include awards from other courses.
Check your earned awards and use the Share option if required.
When you earn a new award, you are notified in Brightspace, and depending on how your instructor has configured the notification, you may also get a notification email.
When you log into the course offering in which you earned the new award, a popup appears to congratulate you. You can click View Awards to open the My Awards tool and view all your awards. All awards are displayed as images and you can click on an image to view more details. If you have earned more than one award, a Next button appears on the pop-up so you can move ahead to view subsequent awards.
Subscriptions alerts on the minibar also displays a notification about new awards.



--------------------------------------------------


Content experiences

Access all your course content and activities in one convenient location.
Visual Tour: Classic Content Experience

Figure: The Content tool interface.

Use the Overview page to learn about your course, content materials, and course expectations. You can also print and download an uploaded course syllabus directly from the Content Overview page. Note: The Print and Download buttons display differently, depending on whether your  instructor has enabled this option.


Click Bookmarks to review a list of topics you have bookmarked. The number beside the Bookmarks link indicates how many bookmarks you have. 


The Course Schedule page lists course material due dates, start dates, end dates, overdue course activities, and other course events for the next seven days. The dates listed on this page are not exclusive to content topics. Upcoming events include all events within the course from the Calendar tool. The number beside the Upcoming Events link indicates how many upcoming events you have.


The Table of Contents panel lists all modules available in your course. The number beside each module name in the Table of Contents panel indicates the number of topics in each module.

Video: Navigate Content

Visual Tour: New Content Experience (Lessons)
In the Lessons interface, the table of contents for the course is represented by a  tree structure, allowing you to easily  navigate your course. Arrow icons display on tiles that contain additional course components, that indicate the tiles can be expanded by clicking them. Hovering over a component displays a tooltip. This is useful if the complete heading is too long to display in the table of contents.
Each material type displays a unique icon, making it easier to visually distinguish materials.

Figure: Overview of Lessons for  learners.

Click a module to expand and review content.


Review content as needed.


Download content as a .zip folder.

Video: Navigate Lessons



--------------------------------------------------


Announcements

Receive frequent and regular communications from your  instructor. Customize notification preferences to be made aware of important updates.
Visual Tour: Announcements

Figure: The Announcements tool is organized into various sections, which are described below.

Click RSS to view the Announcements RSS feed for your course.


Click Notifications to manage your SMS and Email notification settings for course Announcements.


Search for an announcement. Click Show Search Options to filter and refine your search.


Click a title to navigate to that announcement. Click the arrow icon to  view or to dismiss the announcement.





--------------------------------------------------


Quizzes

Click Quizzes to review all your future, current, and past quizzes using the Quiz List.
Visual Tour: Quiz List
 Your Quiz List page may be organized differently by your  instructor to avoid confusion on which quiz needs to be taken.
Figure: The Quiz List page shows details like Future Quiz, Current Quiz, and Past Quiz. Click any one of these to see the associated quizzes.

Click Quizzes to access the Quiz List.


Current Quizzes: Active quizzes that are accessible to you and can currently be written.


Future Quizzes: Quizzes that haven’t started yet. Even though they are visible to you,  they cannot be accessed  since the start date hasn’t been reached yet.


Past Quizzes: Quizzes that are no longer available to you because they are passedt their end dates. Depending on how Brightspace is configured for your school, these quizzes may or may not be visible to you. If past quizzes are available for you to view, you may access them to view feedback or to review your quiz attempt, but you won’t be able to start them or retake them.


Click the arrow icon to access more actions related to a quiz.


Review the Evaluation Status and number of allowable Attempts for a quiz.

Note: Once a quiz has passed the due date, you can still access the quiz. However, your submission will be tagged as a late submission.




--------------------------------------------------


Discussions

Use the Discussions tool to view and subscribe to discussion topics, as well as start new threads.
Visual Tour: Discussions tool
The Discussions tool  helps you to create and manage discussions in your course.

Figure: The Discussions tool is organized into various sections, which are described below.

Click Discussions to open the Discussions page.


Discussions List: Displays an overview of forum topics. Click the topic link to view threads in that topic; or click the drop-down button beside the topic for more options.


Subscriptions: Set your default notification method for the discussion items you are subscribed to. You can also click the Change your notification settings link to update your contact methods, summary of activity, and what method is used to receive instant notifications for various tools and features.


Filter by: Sort and filter  discussion topics.


Discussion Forum: Click the arrow to access more actions for the discussion forum.


Discussion Topic: Click to open the discussion topic listed or click the arrow to view topics in Grid View or Subscribe to threads.


Settings: Configure your personal display options, org unit (course) settings, and the default settings for availability conditions.


Help: Learn more about the Discussions tool.





--------------------------------------------------


Grades

Easily review all of your grade items, including points, grade percentages, and comments and assessments. You can also use the Grades tool to add to your ePortfolio.
Visual Tour: Grades

Figure: The Grades tool is organized into various sections, which are described below.

Click Grades to review your grade items.


Click Add to ePortfolio to add an artifact to your ePortfolio.


Review your Grade Items, Points, Grade, and Comments and Assessments.


Print your grades.





--------------------------------------------------


Class Progress

The Class Progress tool tracks your progress in a course by measuring the completion of different progress indicators. You can use the Class Progress tool to keep track of your course-specific assignments and feedback.
Progress reports are available for the following progress indicators: Summary, Grades, Standards, Objectives, Content, Discussions, Assignments, Quizzes, Checklists, Surveys, Login History, and System Access History.
Note: Based on your organization's settings, the Standards tab may have a different label like Learning Outcomes. In addition, some of the tabs may not display.
To view your course progress in the Class Progress tool
Navigate to your course. 
Click Class Progress. This may be in the navbar, the More drop-down menu, or the Course Tools menu. 
Visual Tour: Class Progress

Figure: Overview of the Class Progress tool.
Note: Depending on your organization, the following tabs may or may not be available for you to access.
Click a menu item to review the following items:
Grades: Displays all your graded items in the course with feedback.Content: Shows all the content available for the course. This tab also shows your Topics Visited, Total Visits, Time Spent, and Completed Topics. Each module has a progress bar that displays your completion level. You can expand each module to see which topics you have and haven't completed. Discussions: Displays all discussions for the course and your Read Posts, Threads Created, and Replies Posted.Assignments: Displays all your assignments. You can view details of your submissions and your instructor’s feedback on each assignment you’ve submitted.Quizzes: Displays all your available quizzes for the course. You can see your attempts and attempt feedback on this tab.Checklist: Displays all the activity checklists in the course. This allows you to view Completed Checklists and Completed Checklist Items.Survey: Displays all surveys created within Brightspace.
Note: If the survey was created using a different platform, it will not be displayed here.System Access History: Displays your # System Accesses (Last 30 Days) and Last Accessed System day for the course.Course Access/Login History: Displays your # System Accesses (Last 30 Days) and Last Accessed System day for the course. Note: Your  can configure the Class Progress tool to display one or all of your System Access History, Course Access, and Login History.
View the current Calculated Final Grade of all graded items in the course. 
Click the Expand icon to view details of your progress within each category. Alternatively, click on the tabs for each category below the Summary tab. 
Video: Overview of the Class Progress tool




--------------------------------------------------


Classlist

Use the Classlist tool to view who is enrolled in your course, send email messages or instant messages, view shared locker files, and read classmates' blogs if they have one.
Navigate to Classlist by clicking the Classlist tool on your navbar or by going to Course Tools > Classlist.
To learn how to send emails and instant messages using the Classlist tool, refer to Find and contact other learners in your course with Classlist.
Visual Tour: Classlist

Figure: The Classlist page with numbered elements.

Email Classlist: Send an email to all the users in your course.


Email: Create an email in the Compose New Message window. 


Instant Message: Send an instant message to one or more users.


Print: Print the information of different users in your classlist.

Note: Before using the Email, Instant Message, and Print options, select the checkbox of the user(s) you are messaging or printing.



--------------------------------------------------


Media Library

Media Library offers a consolidated media processing, storage, and streaming option for all audio-video materials. Any media files that you create are stored in the Media Library repository. Use Media Library's Media Player and the Record Webcam option to create content for discussions or assignments in Brightspace. 
Note: Your capabilities in Media Library will vary depending on your institution. If a functionality is not available that you need, contact your instructor or institution.
Visual Tour: Media Library

Figure: Overview of the Media Library elements.

Add: Access the Upload File and Record Webcam options. 


Everyone's Media: See all users' audio-video content.


Recycle Bin: See all deleted audio-video content.


Filters: Sort audio-video content by Ownership, Content Type, Source, Date Modified, and Date Created.


Search bar: Search for specific audio-video content.


Recording drop-down menu: Access options for your audio-video content like Preview, Download, Edit, Rename, Edit Description, and Delete.





--------------------------------------------------


Calendar

View all your upcoming events in one spot. Add events such as project due dates, office hours, in-class events, and more to your calendar.
Visual Tour: Calendar Tool

Figure: The Calendar tool is organized into various sections, which are described below.

Calendar Views: Toggle between different event display layouts

Use the Agenda view to group your course events by Date, Course, or Category. Events display in chronological order; and all-day events display at the top of each grouped listing.


Use the Day, Week, and Month views to group your events in daily, weekly, or monthly increments.


Use the List view to filter your events by Assignments, Checklists, Discussions, Grades, Materials, Modules, Quizzes, and Surveys.



Calendar Content: Navigate through your calendar events. Information shown will be dependent on the specific calendar you are viewing.


Calendar Menu: Select which calendar’s events you want to view through the calendar menu. You can also change the colour scheme associated with individual calendars and add new calendars.


Mini Calendar: Use the mini calendar to navigate quickly to a specific day, week, or month.


Tasks: Use the task pane to create, track, and maintain personal tasks.

Video Overview: Calendar Tool




--------------------------------------------------


Virtual Classroom

Virtual Classroom is an online scheduled meeting tool where learners can learn, communicate, and collaborate using livestream video coordinated by their instructor. For more information, refer to the Virtual Classroom Overview site. 
Access Virtual Classroom
On your course homepage, click Virtual Classroom. If it does not appear in your navbar, click More > Virtual Classroom.

Figure: On your navbar, select Virtual Classroom.



--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Virtual Assistant

Brightspace Virtual Assistant is an AI-based help tool that is integrated directly into Brightspace as a pop-up window from the speech bubble button in the bottom right corner of the screen. It provides immediate access to help documentation without needing to open another browser tab or window. After typing in a question, the tool provides the most relevant documentation available in Brightspace Community.
Get acquainted with Brightspace by accessing support documentation for all your how-to questions and connect to live agents directly in the LMS. Instructors can find step-by-step guides and video tutorials on how to set up their course and its respective activities directly within the product rather than in a new browser tab or window.
Find answers on how to complete course activities and connect with live agents without having to leave Brightspace. Students can find help documentation related to their course issues without having to leave the space where the problem exists.
If users still need more assistance, they can contact a live support agent directly from Brightspace, without seeking D2L End User Support contact information elsewhere.
Note: Brightspace Virtual Assistant is only available in organizations that have subscribed to End User Support Services. It may not be available in your organization. 
Language support
The Brightspace Virtual Assistant is available in all four languages:
English 
French (Canadian)
Spanish (LATAM)
Brazilian Portuguese 
A user’s chosen Language and Locale in their profile will determine the language of AI output messages, the language of the surfaced support articles, and the language of the support received for any chosen channel (phone, email, chat).
Note: If a user’s chosen Language and Locale is not one of the four languages mentioned above, the default experience will be in English.
Accessing help with Brightspace Virtual Assistant
Brightspace Virtual Assistant appears on the login page for your organization, but you must log in to Brightspace before you can access its full functionality. It is recommended to display contact information for available support resources if users experience Brightspace authentication issues.
Note: For organizations where users access the LMS through another SSO system, pre-login information is still recommended in case a user navigates to the Brightspace authentication page.
Open Brightspace Virtual Assistant by clicking  the speech bubble button at the bottom right corner of the screen.
            Figure: Click the Brightspace Virtual Assistant icon to ask a question.
Type a Brightspace-related question into the text box and click Send.
Read the articles suggested based on the question asked; you can toggle between the two to preview what information is included in each.
Click Read Article to read the resource(s) in full screen within the widget.
Click the ← arrow button to return to the search results
Click Open in new tab to view the resource in Community.

Figure: Type your Brightspace-related query into the textbox or access the resource recommended in the chat.
Do one of the following:
Select Ask the Community to be directed to Brightspace Community to post your question in a discussion forum and receive answers from other Community members.
Select Contact Support for further assistance. The following options appear:Call us: users will be given the correct phone number for their organization. Note: This option may not be available for your organization.Email us: a case will be created from the tool and will be sent to the D2L end user support team.Chat with us: users can chat with a live D2L support agent while navigating through different areas of Brightspace. 

Figure: Click Call us, Email us, or Chat with us to access additional help.
Video: Brightspace Virtual Assistant



--------------------------------------------------


Enable notifications in Announcements

Receive frequent and regular communications from your instructor by customizing notification preferences so that you are aware of important course updates.
To enable notifications in Announcements

Navigate to the course that you want to enable Announcements notifications for.


In the Announcements widget, click the drop-down menu and select Notifications.Figure: Accessing Notifications through the Announcements widget.Note: If the Announcements tool is not on your course homepage, you can locate it on the navbar or in the Course Tools menu.


A new page loads where you can enter your desired contact methods:

Email Address: Click on the Enable email notifications hyperlink to add in your email address so that you can receive email notifications about your course.


Mobile Number: Click the Register your mobile hyperlink to register your phone number so that you can receive text message notifications about your course.



Click the check boxes for your desired methods of communication when receiving Announcements notifications.

Announcements – announcement updated: Sends you a notification if an existing announcement posted by your instructor was updated.


Announcements – new announcement available: Sends you a notification if a new announcement was posted to your course.
Figure: Setting up email and phone notifications for Announcements.

Notifications are enabled for Announcements.





--------------------------------------------------


Subscribe to an Announcements RSS feed

You can subscribe to an Announcements RSS feed and receive daily updates of all Announcements items in an RSS reader. This allows you to access an aggregate of Announcements items without logging into Brightspace.
To subscribe to an Announcements RSS feed
On your course navbar, click Announcements.
Click RSS. The RSS feed URL opens in a new tab in your browser.Figure: The RSS button on the Announcements page.
Copy the RSS feed URL and paste it into an RSS feed reader of your choice. Use the reader to subscribe to the feed.Note: You must add an RSS feed reader extension to your browser to subscribe to the RSS feed. 
You are subscribed to the Announcements RSS feed for your course.



--------------------------------------------------


Create an Activity Feed post

From one central location on a course homepage, communicate with instructors and fellow  learners about upcoming assignments, new content, or discussions. Never miss important information related to learning.
To create an Activity Feed post

Navigate to the Activity Feed widget in your course.


Click anywhere in the Create a post... text box.


Figure: You can create a post in Activity Feed by clicking Create a post... and entering your message.

Enter a message for your  instructor and classmates.


Click the Attach (paperclip icon) button if you want to add an attachment to your post. You can add:

A file from your device.


A link to existing course materials.


A weblink.


An attachment from your Google Drive.


An attachment from OneDrive.


A video from the web.


Note: You may not see all the attachment options listed above since they are determined by the permissions and integrations available at your organization. Contact your administrator for more information.

Figure: Click the Attach button in Activity Feed to upload an attachment.

Click Post.

Your message is posted and visible to learners and instructors through their Activity Feed widgets.
Add a comment to an Activity Feed post
From one central location on a course homepage, communicate with instructors and fellow  learnersabout upcoming assignments, new content, or discussions. Never miss important information related to learning.
To add a comment to an Activity Feed post

Navigate to the Activity Feed widget in your course.


Find a post that you want to comment on.


Click anywhere in the Write a comment… text box.


Enter a message.


Click Post.


Figure: Enter your comment into the Write a comment... field and click Post.
Your reply is posted and visible to learners and instructors through their Activity Feed widgets.



--------------------------------------------------


Find and contact others in your course with Classlist

Use the Classlist tool to view who is enrolled in your course, send email messages or instant messages, view shared locker files, and read blogs. 
Send an email from the Classlist
You can select specific users from your Classlist and send them an email.
To send an email from Classlist
From your course navbar, click Classlist.
Click the check box of the user(s) you want to email.Figure: The Classlist page with the Email option highlighted.
Click Email above the list of users. The Compose New Message window opens. Figure: The Compose New Message window.

Enter recipients in the To field. Click Add CC or BCC to include other recipients.


Enter a Subject.


Write your message in the Body field.Note: The Body field includes elements of Brightspace Editor. You can include other content by clicking options like Insert Stuff, Insert Quicklink, and Insert Image. Before sending your email, you can change the Priority of your email from Normal to either Low or High.


Click Send.

You have sent an email to the selected user(s) from your Classlist.
Send an instant message from the Classlist
You can send an instant message to users from the Classlist.
To send an instant message from Classlist
From your course navbar, click Classlist.
Click the check box of the user(s) you want to message.
Click Instant Message above the list of users.Figure: The Classlist page with the Instant Message option highlighted.

In the Send Message window, write your message.
Figure: The Send Message window.


Click Send.

You have sent an instant message to the selected user(s) from your Classlist.



--------------------------------------------------


Communicate with others using Discussions

You can locate and post replies to discussion threads by either using the Discussions tool or from the Content tool.
Video: Create a Discussion Post

View a discussion topic
The Discussions tool allows you to view all your discussion topics related to course materials.
To view all discussion topics
On the navbar, click  Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions on the Course Homepage.

Click on the forum and the topic in which you want to subscribe to a discussion thread.  In the example below, the discussion forum is "Astronomy," and the topics are "Week 1 Discussion" and "Class Discussion about the Big Bang Theory."
Figure: Select the discussion forum and topic to view.


Click on a discussion you want to view. All the discussion threads are listed under a particular discussion topic. Click on a thread to view it.
Figure: Click on the discussion thread to view it.

Subscribe to a discussion
The Discussions tool allows you to subscribe to discussion threads and helps you stay updated on the latest course discussions and changes.
To subscribe to a discussion thread
On the navbar, click  Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions on the Course Homepage.

Click on the forum and the topic in which you want to subscribe to a discussion thread.  In the example below, the discussion forum is "Astronomy," and the topics are "Week 1 Discussion" and "Class Discussion about the Big Bang Theory".
Figure: Select the discussion forum and topic to view.


Click on the Subscribe button below the topic name.Figure:  Click Subscribe to be notified of changes to the forum or topic.


Customize notifications for that particular topic by selecting one of the following:

Show notifications in minibar only


Send me an instant notification


Include in my Summary of activityFigure: Select your preferred Notification Method in the Customize Notifications window.



Click the Subscribe button.

When you are subscribed to notifications of all threads, the topic becomes highlighted with the Subscribed label.Figure: Your subscribed discussions are marked with a blue star and the word "Subscribed".
Unsubscribe from a discussion topic
The Discussions tool allows you to unsubscribe to discussion threads to no longer receive notifications about new posts in course topics.
Note: This topic focuses on unsubscribing to a discussion thread. To know how to subscribe to a discussion thread, refer to Subscribe to a discussion.
To unsubscribe to a discussion thread
On the navbar, click  Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions on the Course Homepage.

Click on the forum and the topic to which you are subscribed. Note: In the example below, the discussion forum is "Astronomy", and the topics are "Week 1 Discussion" and "Class Discussion about the Big Bang Theory." The total number of threads and posts created inside a particular topic are listed. 
Figure: Select the discussion forum and topic to view.


Click a particular topic to check the subscription status. The blue star button below the topic name with subscribed status means that you currently receive notifications of a discussion topic.Figure: Your subscribed discussions are marked with a blue star and the word "Subscribed".


Click on the Subscribe button below the topic name.  Then click Yes in the opened window to confirm you are unsubscribing.Figure: Click Yes to confirm you are unsubscribing from the forum or topic.

The blue star  button below the topic changes to Subscribe status, and you get a message "Topic unsubscribed successfully." You are unsubscribed to notifications of all threads inside this topic.
Figure: The  "Thread unsubscribed successfully" or "Topic unsubscribed successfully" message appears once you have unsubscribed. Click the X to close this message.
Create a discussion thread
The Discussions tool allows you to post, read and reply to discussion threads on different course topics, share thoughts about course materials, ask questions, share files, or work with your peers on assignments and homework.
Note: A discussion post can have a certain amount of word limit set by the instructor. Also, the formatting of the content is not preserved when the content is copy pasted. It is recommended to submit content as attachments in the tool, which preserves document formatting.
To create a discussion thread

On the navbar, click Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions on the Course Homepage.


Click on the forum and the topic in which you want to create a discussion post.  Note: In the example below, the discussion forum is "Astronomy," and the topics are "Week 1 Discussion" and "Class Discussion about the Big Bang Theory." The total number of threads and posts created inside a particular topic are listed. To create a new discussion thread, click the name of the specific topic, for example,  "Week 1 Discussion".
Figure: Click the discussion forum or topic you wish to create a post in.


Click Start a New Thread.
Figure: Click New Discussion Thread.


Enter a subject, and your post information. You can set any of the following posting options:

To keep the thread at the top of the list, select Pin Thread.


To receive updates on the thread using your selected notification method, select Subscribe to this thread.


To attach a file, in the Attachments area, click Browse to locate the file that you want to attach.


To attach an audio recording, in the Attachments area, click Record Audio > Record. To make adjustments to your microphone selection and volume, click Flash Settings. To listen to your recording, click Play. To erase your recording, click Clear. If you have prerecorded audio and are using a supported browser, you can drag audio files onto the attachments upload target.


To attach a video recording, in the Attachments area, click Record Video > Allow > Record. When you finish recording, click Stop. To erase your recording, click Clear. To add the recording, click Add. If you have pre-recorded video and are using a supported browser, you can drag video files onto the attachments upload target.


To post your thread to more than one topic, click Post to other topics. Click Add Topics. Select the topics that you want your thread to appear in. To post in every topic simultaneously, select the Select All and then click Add Topics.



Click Post. Note: If the topic is moderated, your post does not appear until a moderator approves it.
Figure: Click Post to publish your post to the discussion topic.

Your post is visible pending moderation.
Add audio or video to a discussion thread
You can also add audio-video content to a discussion thread.
To add audio-video content to a discussion thread from Content
On your course homepage, navigate to Content.
In the module with your discussion topic, click the topic where you want to create a thread.Figure: Click the discussion topic in a module.
Click Start a New Thread.Figure: Click Start a New Thread to start creating a thread with audio or video content.
Enter a title in Enter a subject.Figure: Enter a Subject and body text of your discussion post into the corresponding fields. You can also select Pin thread, Post as Anonymous, and Subscribe to this thread.
To attach an audio recording, in the Attachments area, click Record Audio > Record. Figure: Click Add Attachments to display the file picker.Figure: Click Upload or drag and drop a file from your computer. Click Record to begin recording new audio or video content. Click Choose Existing to select content from Brightspace.
To adjust your microphone selection and volume, click Flash Settings.
To listen to your recording, click Play.
To erase your recording, click Clear.
If you have prerecorded audio and are using a supported browser, you can drag and drop audio files onto the attachments upload target or click Choose Existing.
To attach a video recording, in the Attachments area, click Record Video > Allow > Record.
When you finish recording, click Stop.
To erase your recording, click Clear. 
To add the recording, click Add.
If you have a prerecorded video and are using a supported browser, you can drag and drop video files into the attachments upload target or click Choose Existing.
Click Post.
Note: If the topic is moderated, your post does not appear until a moderator approves it.
Attach a file to a discussion thread
You can attach files (such as a text or image file) from your personal device to a discussion thread.
To attach a file to a discussion thread
On your course homepage, navigate to Content.
In the module with your discussion topic, click the topic where you want to create a thread.Figure: Click the discussion topic in a module.
Click Start a New Thread.Figure: Click Start a New Thread in your discussion topic.
Enter a title in the Enter a subject.Figure: Enter a subject and body text for your discussion post into the corresponding fields. You can also select Pin thread, Post as Anonymous, and Subscribe to this thread.
To attach a file, click the Insert Stuff button in the body field of Brightspace Editor.

Figure: Click Insert Stuff in Brightspace Editor.

In the Insert Stuff dialog, click My Computer.


Either click Upload and select your file from your computer or drag and drop the file into the upload box.


Click Upload.

Edit an existing discussion thread
The Discussions tool allows you to edit your posted discussion threads on different courses. 
Note: This topic provides instructions on how to edit an already-posted discussion post. To create a new discussion thread, check the Create a discussion thread topic above.
To edit an existing discussion thread

On the navbar, click Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions on the Course Homepage.


Click on the forum and the topic in which you want to edit an existing discussion post. Note:  In the example below, the discussion forum is "Astronomy," and the topics are "Week 1 Discussion" and "Class Discussion about the Big Bang Theory." The total number of threads and posts created inside a particular topic are listed. To edit a discussion thread, click the name of the specific topic, for example,  "Week 1 Discussion".
Figure: Click the discussion forum or topic you wish to edit.


Click the drop-down arrow for a particular post and select Edit Thread.
Figure: Select Edit Thread from the drop-down menu.


Make changes and click Update.
Figure: Click Update to save your changes.
The Discussion thread is updated.

Edit an existing discussion post
The Discussions tool allows you to edit your  discussion posts on different courses. 
To edit an existing discussion post

Click on a particular discussion thread to edit a post. Clicking on a particular thread reveals all the discussion posts.Figure: Click the desired discussion thread to edit a post.


Click the dropdown arrow button for a particular post and select Edit Post.Figure: Select Edit Post from the drop-down menu.


Make your edits and click Update.Figure: Once you have edited the discussion post, click Update.

Note: Your  instructor may or may not have enabled the editing feature. Reach out to your  instructor if you are unable to complete this workflow.
Delete a discussion thread
You can delete a discussion thread using the Discussions tool.
To delete a discussion thread from Discussions
On the navbar, click Discussions.
On the Discussions List page, click the context menu of the thread you want to delete and click Delete Thread.
To confirm the deletion, click Yes.
The discussion thread and all associated posts are deleted.
Reply to a discussion thread or post
The Discussions tool allows you to reply to created discussion threads and posts on different course topics, share thoughts about course materials, ask questions, share files, or work with your peers on assignments and homework.
To reply to a discussion thread or post

On the navbar, click Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions on the Course Homepage.


Click on the forum and the topic in which you want to reply to a thread or post. Note:  In the example below, the discussion forum is "Astronomy", and the topics are "Week 1 Discussion" and "Class Discussion about the Big Bang Theory." The total number of threads and posts created inside a particular topic are listed. 
Figure: Select the discussion forum or topic you want to reply to.


Click on a particular discussion thread to reply to a post.Figure: Click the discussion thread to add a post.Clicking on a particular thread reveals all the discussion posts.

Do either of the following: To reply to the main thread post, click Reply to Thread.  To reply to a particular post inside the thread, click  Reply.Figure: Click Reply to Thread to reply to a thread or click Reply to reply to a discussion post.
Enter your reply in the Brightspace Editor. To include the original post’s text in your reply, click the Add original post text link. Note: If this option is already enabled by your course administrator, this message will not display.
Set any of the following options:To post anonymously, select Post as Anonymous.To receive updates on the thread using your selected notification method, select Subscribe to this thread.To attach a file, in the Attachments area, click Browse to locate the file you want to attach.To attach an audio recording, in the Attachments area, click Record Audio > Record. To make adjustments to your microphone selection and volume, click Flash Settings. To listen to your recording, click Play. To erase your recording, click Clear. If you have pre-recorded audio and are using a supported browser, you can drag audio files onto the attachments upload target.To attach a video recording, in the Attachments area, click Record Video > Allow > Record. When you finish recording, click Stop. Click Clear to erase your recording or Add to add the recording. If you have pre-recorded video and are using a supported browser, you can drag video files onto the attachments upload target.
Click Post.Figure: Click Post to reply to a discussion thread or post.
Change Discussions tool settings
You can customize Discussions settings such as where and how a topic or thread is displayed.
To change Discussions tool settings
On the navbar, click  Discussions.
On the Discussions List page, click  Settings.
Do any of the following:To show topics in the View Topic and View Thread pages, select Always show the Discussions List pane.To hide topics in the View Topic and View Thread pages, clear Always show the Discussions List pane.To automatically include the original post when replying, select Reply Settings.
Click Save.
Discussion settings are saved.



--------------------------------------------------


Email others using the Email tool

The Email tool allows you to send emails from within Brightspace. You can also organize received mail using folders and store email addresses using your Address Book.
To email others using the Email tool
                On your organizational or course homepage, click the Message alerts (envelope) icon and then click Email.Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
To select your email recipient(s), do one of the following:
Enter their names in the To field.Click Address Book and select them manually.Figure: The Compose New Message page with the To field highlighted.
Update the Subject field.
Add your content in the Body field, including any images, links, or media. You can also attach files in the Attachments area.
Upload: Add a file or other media from your device.Choose Existing: Add a file from your Brightspace account or other accounts like OneDrive and Google Drive.Record: Record video or audio content.
Click Send.Figure: The Compose New Message page showing the Subject, Body, and Attachments fields.
Add and edit an email signature
Add an email signature to your emails to ensure that every message is personal and consistent.
To add an email signature
On your organizational or course homepage, click the Message alerts icon and click Email.

Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
On the Compose New Message page, click Settings.

Figure: Click the Settings button in the Email tool.
On the Email Settings page, in the Email Signature field, create your signature using Brightspace Editor.Note: The Email Signature field has a maximum character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: Use Brightspace Editor to create your email signature.
Click Save.
You have created and added your email signature. Your signature appears at the bottom of the field when you compose a new message.
To edit an email signature
On your organizational or course homepage, click the Message alerts icon and click Email.

Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
On the Compose New Message page, click Settings.

Figure: Click the Settings button in the Email tool.
On the Email Settings page, in the Email Signature field, change your signature using Brightspace Editor.

Figure: Use Brightspace Editor to change your email signature.
Click Save.
You have edited your email signature.
How do I contact my instructor or find my instructor's  email?
To contact your instructor, email them using the Email tool in Brightspace. Some good places to find your instructor's  email address are:
Your course syllabus. This may be posted in the Content tool.
The Classlist tool.Note: The Classlist tool may not be available to you.
Which issues should I contact my instructor for help with?
Extensions on assignments, quizzes, discussions, and exams.
Requests for additional quiz attempts and technical difficulties while taking a quiz.
Specific details or questions about course material like instructions.
Grade inquiry for assessments like assignments and discussions.
I am unable to log in to my institution's email portal (not Brightspace). What do I do?
If you are unable to log in to your school email portal, contact your institution’s  Help Desk.
Why can I only see some emails in my inbox?
If you know you have more emails than you can see on the page:
Ensure the email filter does not restrict the emails you are seeing. From the Filter By list, select All Messages.
You might have multiple pages for your email. Make sure to look through all pages and expand the number of emails that appear per page.
I get a "Not Authorized" error when trying to access my Email. What do I do?
From your organizational or course homepage, click on your Message Alerts (envelope icon).  If you see the message You must complete the following quizzes for alerts to be enabled: {Quiz Name}, you will be able to access your email after the quiz noted in the message has ended. While the quiz is in progress, your email access is disabled by your instructor.
I cannot access my email inbox. I can only send emails.
Your institution has send-only email enabled. You cannot receive emails in Brightspace.
Forward Brightspace emails to another account
You can also set up forwarding so that any emails you receive in your inbox are forwarded to another account of your choice.
To forward emails
Navigate to the Email tool.
Click Settings.Figure: Brightspace Email Settings.
Under Forwarding Options, click the check box Forward incoming messages to an alternate email account.
Enter the email address that you want your Brightspace emails forwarded to.Figure: Brightspace Email Forwarding Options.
Choose one of the following options:
Select Forward and delete from the Inbox folder to forward any email sent to your account to the address specified. The emails will no longer be accessible through Brightspace.Select Forward and mark unread in the Inbox folder to forward any email sent to your account to the address specified. The email will also exist in your Brightspace account and will be marked as unread.Select Forward and mark read in the Inbox folder to forward any email sent to your account to the address specified. The email will also exist in your Brightspace account and will be marked as read.
Click Save.
Forwarding actions are set up and saved for all emails that you receive in your inbox.
How do I see the emails I have sent?
To view your sent emails
From your course homepage, click the Message Alerts icon and then click Email.Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
Click Sent Mail.Figure: Click Sent Mail to view your sent emails.
You can now view your sent emails.




--------------------------------------------------


Communicate using the Instant Messages tool

Use the Instant Messages tool to quickly communicate with other learners or your course instructor. 
Access the Instant Messages tool
On your course homepage, in the minibar, click the Message alerts (envelope) icon.
Click Instant Messages.

Figure: The Message alerts icon showing the Instant Messages button.
The Instant Messages window opens.
Visual tour of the Instant Messages tool
Review the following tabs located in the Instant Messages tool.
Inbox tab
Your Inbox shows all your received messages and displays them as read or unread. 

Figure: A visual overview of your Inbox in the Instant Messages tool.
View: Choose between displaying All, Read, or Unread messages. 
Set Read: Select messages and click Set Read to set all messages to read. 
Set Unread: Select messages and click Set Unread to change all messages to unread. 
Delete: Select messages and click Delete to delete all your messages.
Friends tab
Your Friends tab displays all the people you have added as friends.

Figure: A visual overview of the Friends tab in the Instant Messages tool.
View: Choose between displaying All users, or users who are Online or Offline. 
Message: Select a user or users to send a message to. Click Message to write and send a message.
Remove: Select a user or users. Click Remove to remove them from your Friends list.
Add Friends: Click to add users by searching or adding their username.
Classlist tab
The Classlist tab displays all learners and instructors in your course with their current activity status.

Figure: A visual overview of the Classlist tab in the Instant Messages tool.
View: Choose between displaying users from different courses you are enrolled in.
Message: Select a user or users to send a message to. Click Message to write and send a message.
Add: Select a user or users. Click Add to add them to your Friends list.
Send a message
Use the Instant Messages tool to send a message to your friends or other users in your course.
To send a message
On your course homepage, in the minibar, click Message Alerts > Instant Messages.

Figure: The Message alerts icon showing the Instant Messages button.
Navigate to either the Friends or Classlist tab.
Select the user or users you want to message and click Message.

Figure: Selected users in the Friends tab with the Message button highlighted.
On the Send Message page, type your message into the textbox.
Click Send.

Figure: The Send Message page showing the textbox and Send button.
You have sent a message to other users. They will receive the message in their Brightspace inbox.
Add your friends
Add friends from your Brightspace courses to your Friends list for easier access when you want to send them a message.
To add friends using the Friends tab
On your course homepage, in the minibar, click Message Alerts > Instant Messages.

Figure: The Message alerts icon showing the Instant Messages button.
Navigate to the Friends tab.
Click Add Friends and do one of the following:

Figure: The Add Friends button showing the Add by Username and Search Users options.
Click Add by Username. In the Add Friend dialog, enter your friend's username and click Add.

Figure: The Add Friend dialog showing the Username field and Add button.
Click Search Users. In the Search For... field, enter a user's name. Select the user you want to add and click Add as Friend.

Figure: The Search For... field and the Add as Friend button.
You have added a user to your Friends list.
To add friends using the Classlist tab
On your course homepage, in the minibar, click Message Alerts > Instant Messages.

Figure: The Message alerts icon showing the Instant Messages button.
Navigate to the Classlist tab.
Select the user or users you want to add to your Friends list.
Note: If you click the View drop-down menu, you can select a course and view the Classlist and users for that course.
Click Add.

Figure: The Classlist tab showing selected users and the Add button.
You have added friends to your Friends list.



--------------------------------------------------


Upload, store, and share files with the Locker tool

The Locker tool enables you to store your files remotely and access them anywhere, anytime. Your locker is only accessible to you.
Your personal locker area is not course specific. You can access your locker from anywhere in Brightspace and store all your files together.  Group lockers are restricted locker areas where members of a group can share files. Any group member can modify files posted in group locker areas. Group lockers have the same options as regular lockers with the following exceptions:

The option to make locker files public is not available.


There is an option to Email Group Members.


There is a Modified By column that shows the last person to work on a file.

To upload, create, and store files with the Locker tool

From your course or organizational navbar, click Locker.


Do one of the following:

Click Upload Files to add files from your local device to your Brightspace locker.


Click New File to create a new file directly in Brightspace.


Click New Folder to create a new folder within your locker. You can move locker files that you upload or create folders for organizational purposes.Note: The File Description of a file cannot have more than 4,000 characters.
Figure: You can Upload Files from you computer, create a New File, or create a New Folder.


Find other  learner's shared locker files
On the navbar of a course, click  Classlist.
From the context menu of the user whose shared locker files you want to view, click  View shared locker files.
Click the file name you want to open, or specify a file type in the Files of Type drop-down list. 




--------------------------------------------------


Submit course feedback with the Surveys tool

Surveys are an excellent way to send constructive feedback to your  instructor.
To participate in a survey

From your course navbar, click Surveys.

Figure: The Communication drop-down menu with Surveys highlighted.Note: Surveys may be on your course navbar or it may be under the Communication drop-down menu.


Select the desired survey from the Current Surveys list.Figure: The Survey List page showing available surveys under the Current Surveys list.


Complete your survey.


Click Submit Survey at the end of the page.Figure: Course survey example with the Submit Survey and Save Responses options highlighted.Note: You can click Save Responses and continue your survey later. If you don’t want to submit your responses, you can click the Exit button at the top of the page.

Anonymous participation in a survey
If a survey is anonymous, your user data is hidden in the survey results. The responses to survey questions are available for all users, but the system does not report who made which response.
Why can't I create a survey?
The Surveys tool is designed to be an assessment tool in courses and provide a way for your instructor to solicit feedback from you regarding any aspect of a course.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage course events with the Calendar tool

Use the Calendar tool to view all your upcoming events in one location. Add events such as project due dates, office hours, in-class events, and more to your calendar.
Create and manage personal tasks
You can add and manage personal tasks in the Calendar tool. 
To create and manage tasks
From your course navbar, click Calendar.
Click Add a Task.Figure: Enter the name of the Task into the Add a task... field.
Enter the task name or details.
Press the Enter key on your keyboard.Figure: Review your newly-created task in the Calendar.
A new task is added to your calendar.
To edit an existing task, provide a due date, and include additional notes 
Select the task.
Click the task to edit the name.
Click No due date to enter a due date.  Enter a date and click Save due date.
Click Add a note… to enter a note for the task.
Click Delete Task (trashcan icon) to delete the task.
Sync your Calendar with external calendars
You can use iCalfeeds to copy and paste a URL to any external calendar or download an .ics file. This  enables you to sync your Calendar tool course events created in Brightspace with an external calendar such as Microsoft Outlook and Google Calendar.
Conversely, subscribing to an iCal feed also syncs your external calendar application or device with the Calendar tool, keeping you updated without logging in to Brightspace. Note: Refer to your device or application instructions for adding an iCal feed, as each application has different methods for managing iCal feed.
To sync to an external calendar

On the Course Homepage, click the Calendar widget drop-down and select Go to Calendar.Figure: Click Go to Calendar from the Calendar drop-down menu.

In the Calendar page, click  Settings.Figure: Click Settings (denoted with a gear icon) to configure your calendar sync settings.
Select the Enable Calendar Feeds option and click Save.Figure: Select the box beside Enable Calendar Feeds.
In the Calendar views area, click Subscribe.
Under Calendar Subscriptions, select which calendar you want to subscribe to, or select All Calendars and Tasks, or Tasks Only. Figure: Select the desired Calendar Subscriptions option.
Do one of the following:Copy and paste the  URL into any external calendar application to subscribe to events for the selected calendar(s).Click Download to download a .ics file. Open the .ics file in an external calendar tool such as Microsoft Outlook to sync your calendar.
Click Close.
Your external calendar is synced with the Calendar tool.
Change Calendar settings
Get reminders about upcoming activities and never miss important updates by keeping your Calendar settings updated. 
To change Calendar settings

On the Course Homepage, click the Calendar drop-down button, then select Go to Calendar.Figure: Click Go to Calendar from the Calendar drop-down menu.

In the Calendar page, click  Settings.Figure: Click Settings (denoted with a gear icon) to change your calendar settings.
Select the Enable Calendar Feeds option.Figure: Select the box beside Enable Calendar Feeds.
Customize the following Calendar Settings: Calendar OptionsCore Hours: Click the drop-down button to set the “from” and “to” of the core hours. Select the Show weekends option to include weekends in the specified core hours.Figure: Select your Core Hours by selecting start and end time from the drop-down menus. Check Show weekends to show weekends in the Core Hours.Calendar Feeds: Select the Enable Calendar Feeds option to obtain scheduling information such as events and to-dos via an iCal feed.Figure: Select the box beside Enable Calendar Feeds.Tasks Options Completed Tasks: Click the drop-down button to hide or show the display of completed tasks in the Calendar.Figure: Select the desired Completed Tasks setting from the drop-down menu.Upcoming Tasks Default Duration: Click the drop-down button to change the number of days. Three days is the default duration of upcoming tasks.Figure: Select the desired Upcoming Tasks Default Duration setting from the drop-down menu.Confirm Delete: Select this option to display a pop-up message to confirm the deletion of tasks.Figure: Check Confirm Delete to receive notification before deleting tasks.
After reviewing all the details, click Save.
The new Calendar Settings takes effect immediately.



--------------------------------------------------


About Brightspace ePortfolio

Brightspace ePortfolio is a personal portfolio tool for storing, organizing, reflecting on, and sharing items that represent your learning. You can include items such as documents, graphics, audio files, videos, presentations, and course work to demonstrate your improvement or mastery in certain areas.
You can control what items you want to include in your portfolio, how they are organized, and who you want to share them with. When you share items with your peers, mentors, or potential employers, you can give them permission to view items, edit items, see or add comments, and see or add assessments to receive feedback.
Brightspace ePortfolio user interface overview

Figure: Brightspace ePortfolio is divided into 4 main pages: the Dashboard, the My Items page, the Explore page, and the Sharing Groups page.
Page

Description

Brightspace ePortfoloio Dashboard

The Dashboard is the main landing page for Brightspace ePortfolio. On the Dashboard, you can add new content to your Brightspace ePortfolio, review recent activity on your items and items shared with you, and check invites from your peers.
 							The "What are you learning?" panel prompts you to record brief thoughts about a current learning experience that you can expand on at a later date. You can also add file artifacts or a link artifact to your Brightspace ePortfolio or associate them with your brief reflection. When you post an item, it automatically shares with the default sharing group you specify in your Brightspace ePortfolio settings. 
The Announcements feed consolidates recent activity on your items and items shared with you. Your items appear in this area if they have been recently edited, commented on, or assessed. If you contribute a comment, an edit, or an assessment to another user's item, that item also appears in the Announcements feed and you can see contributions others are making to it. 
Filters at the top of the Announcements feed enables you to search and view specific sets of content: recent activity by ownership, people and items you've subscribed to, and items from contacts in the Instant Messages tool via the Friends List. 						The Unread Invites panel displays your recent invites, including the author of the invite, the message content, and the associated Brightspace ePortfolio item.

My Items

The My Items page consolidates all of your artifacts, reflections, presentations, collections, and learning objectives into a single view, enabling you to view, search, and manage all of your content from one location. On the My Items page you can: 

								Add Brightspace ePortfolio content using the New Presentation, New Collection, and Add buttons. 


								Bulk add items to a presentation or collection or bulk associate items with learning objectives using the More Actions button. 


									Perform common actions on your Brightspace ePortfolio items, such as view, preview (image and HTML file artifacts only), edit, copy (presentations only), delete, and share. 

Your Brightspace ePortfolio items display in a list that you can sort and filter. 

Explore

The Explore page consolidates items others have shared publicly or privately with you into one view. Shared Brightspace ePortfolio items display in a list that you can sort and filter. On the Explore page you can: 
						Browse items.
Depending on your sharing permissions, view and leave comments and assessments and edit others' items. A feedback activity icon appears beside items when there is comment and assessment activity.
Click on a user's name to view all content shared from that user. 
Subscribe to an item or a user. 
Search for content. The search checks for matches within item titles, tags, descriptions, and owner names. 

Sharing Groups
The Sharing Groups page displays all sharing groups to which you are a member. Use a sharing group to apply and save permissions for different users and groups of users. This allows you to attach the sharing group to new and existing items rather than specifying permissions for each item you create. 
            Video: Navigate Brightspace ePortfolio
What are activity icons?
Once you share items with others and they provide comments or rubric assessments, on the My Items page, icons that represent this activity appear beside your items. 
You can click on these icons to view details about which individuals or groups you are sharing an item with or to review comments and rubric assessments made on that item. 
Clicking on the sharing group icon or individual icon opens an item's Sharing Settings dialog. From here you can modify who can access your item. Clicking on the feedback icon opens an item's View page where you can review comments and rubric assessments from others. 

Figure: Brightspace ePortfolio activity icons.
Enable notifications in Brightspace ePortfolio
Receive real-time notifications about your ePortfolio by configuring your notifications settings.
On the minibar, click your username, then select Notifications.Figure: The Notifications option on clicking the username on the Course Homepage.

In the Instant Notifications area, select how you want to receive notifications for any of the following items:

ePortfolio - feedback added to subscribed items.


ePortfolio - another user has subscribed to your updates.


ePortfolio - feedback added to my items.Figure: The option to enable Instant Notifications for ePortfolio-related updates via SMS or Email.Note: To receive notifications via SMS, ensure that you have set up and confirmed your registered mobile number. To receive content-related individual notifications, use the Brightspace Pulse App or select the Email option notification type.


Click Save to apply the new Notifications settings for your Brightspace ePortfolio.
Brightspace ePortfolio settings
Settings allow you to change display options and preferences for your Brightspace ePortfolio.
Display Options

Default list size


Select the number of items to display in your Announcements feed, My Items, and Explore lists.


Number of activities on Announcements feed items


Select the maximum number of events you want to display for each Announcements feed item.


My Modifications


Select whether to include activity you make on your own items in your Announcements feed.


Number of unread invites on dashboard


Select how many unread invites appear on your dashboard.


Item Defaults


Item feedback


Select whether you want to allow comments or assessments by default when creating items.
Note: These settings enable commenting and assessments; you still need to set permissions around who can add comments or assessments.


Default presentation theme


This area displays the current default theme for the organization.
If you have permission, you can click the Manage Themes link to make edits to presentation themes and their styles. Your edits are visible to all other users in your organization.


RSS Updates


Feedback RSS


Notifies you when edits, comments, or assessments are made on one of your portfolio items by another user. 
To use RSS feeds, you must subscribe to an external RSS reader. 


Ignore List


Ask for confirmation before ignoring items from users


Select if you want to see a confirmation dialog asking if you want to ignore items from a user.


Ask for confirmation before restoring items from users 


Select if you want to see a confirmation dialog asking if you want to restore items from a user.


Invite RSS


Notifies you when you receive an invite to view another user's item. 
To use RSS feeds, you must subscribe to an external RSS reader.


Sharing Settings


Invite Delivery Method


Select Email Invitation if you want to receive an email when others invite you to view items from their Brightspace ePortfolio. 
A copy of the invite always appears on your Invites page.


Default Sharing Group


Select a default sharing group to apply to all new items in your Brightspace ePortfolio that meet your filter criteria. Use this option if you consistently share new items with the same group of users. 





--------------------------------------------------


Create and manage Brightspace ePortfolio presentations

Presentations let you compile Brightspace ePortfolio items into a web project to showcase your achievements. Your presentations can have multiple pages. Presentations provide a polished, professional medium to demonstrate your learning and accomplishments. 
A banner appears at the top of every page in a presentation. The presentation title usually appears in the banner, much like a header in a book. You can include additional text in the banner as a description. The theme of the presentation controls the style of the banner, including the background and fonts used. 
Themes are default style templates that give your presentations a consistent look and feel. Themes are comprised of styles that control one aspect of the design. For example, there are separate styles that control the look of titles, links, dates, and images. 
Your organization provides presentation themes, but you may be able to change some or all aspects of a theme. 
Add a new presentation
You can add a new presentation to your ePortfolio.
On your course navbar, click ePortfolioand then click the My Items tab.Figure: The My Items tab of the ePortfolio page.
Click New Presentation.The New Presentation page opens.
In the Properties tab, enter your presentation details. Click Save.Figure: The Properties tab.
In the Content/Layout tab, do any of the following:Figure: The Content/Layout tab.
To add pages to your presentation, in the Pages panel, click the New page icon. Enter your page details. Click Save.To add content to your presentation, in a Content Area panel, click Add Component. Locate your component, select it, and click Add.Note: There is a character limit of 1 million for any content item in ePortfolio.
In the Banner tab, enter your banner details.
In the Theme tab, do any of the following:To edit your current theme, in the Current Theme area, click the Edit Styles icon. Make your changes. Click Save.To select a new theme for your presentation, in the Available Themes area, click Select > Set Theme.
You can click View Presentation at the top of the page at any time to preview your updates.
Figure: A preview of an ePortfolio presentation with the Refresh theme applied.Note: While viewing your presentation, click Review Presentationto add reflections, comments, and more.
Edit a presentation layout
You can also edit your ePortfolio presentation after creating it.
On your course navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the context menu of the presentation you want to edit, click Edit.
In the Content/Layout tab, do any of the following:To edit where the page navigation appears, click Edit Presentation Navigation. Select your navigation option. Click Save.To edit where content areas appear on a page, click Edit Page Layout. Select your layout option. Click Save.To move an item in a content area, from the item's context menu, click Move [Up/Down/To].To remove an item in a content area, from the item's context menu, click Remove from Layout.To edit how an item appears in a content area, from the item's context menu, click Edit Display Options. Make your changes. Click Save.
Your ePortfolio presentation is updated.
Copy an ePortfolio presentation
You can copy presentations only from your own Brightspace ePortfolio. When copying a presentation, the following information copies: 
The presentation’s description, tags, comments, and assessment properties 
The theme 
The banner title, description, and appearance 
All pages, page layouts, page content, display options, and display orders 
The following information does not copy: 
Permissions 
Comments or assessments for the presentation 
Reflections associated with the presentation 
To copy an ePortfolio presentation
On your coursre navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the context menu of the presentation you want to edit, click Edit.
Click Copy.Figure: The Copy Presentation dialog.
Enter a New Presentation Name and click OK.
The copied presentation is added to the My Items tab.
Export a presentation in HTML format
If you have the appropriate permissions, you can export presentations to HTML format directly from a presentation's context menu. 
Exporting your presentation to HTML format enables you to keep a copy of your presentation in a viewable format external to the system. This is useful if you change institutions and you don't want to lose your work. Once you export your presentation to HTML, you can host it externally on your own website or save it on your computer to view offline. 
Note: You cannot import an HTML presentation back into Brightspace ePortfolio. 
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the context menu of the presentation you want to export, click Export.
Select Export HTML version of presentation. Figure: The Export Item dialog with Export HTML version of presentation selected.
To include links to pages within the system, select the All system links check box. Links to pages within the system require users to log in to the system and have the appropriate permissions. 
Click Next.
In the Download File dialog that displays, click the link for your exported package to download the package.
You have downloaded a .zip file containing the HTML of your ePortfolio presentation.
What property changes occur when I export a presentation to HTML format?

Property


Notes


Action bar


Does not include the action bar at the top of a presentation


Artifacts


Includes embedded artifacts and links to artifacts 
Embedded image artifacts retain their alt tags 
Embedded image and media artifacts retain their size settings 
Artifacts retain their type icon if displayed as a link inline 
Artifacts retain their titles and descriptions  


Assessments


Includes assessments made on items within the presentation 
Does not include assessments made on the presentation 


Comments


Includes all comments for artifacts and reflections 
Does not include comments made on the presentation 


Forms


Does not include forms linked via a Quicklink 


Learning Objectives


Includes embedded learning objectives and links to learning objectives 


Permissions


Does not retain permissions; anyone can view content within an HTML presentation 


Presentation layout


Page links, navigation settings, page settings, page names, and text areas remain the same 


Presentation theme


Presentation themes retain their style settings, including custom replaced images 


Profile details


Profile information exports as displayed in the presentation, including customized profile titles and social media icons 
Only the fields set to display exports; hidden profile information does not export with the presentation 


Quicklinks


All Quicklinks retain their links to external URLs and artifacts stored within the export package 
Quicklinks to system resources require users to log in to the system and have the appropriate permissions 


Reflections


Includes embedded reflections and links to reflections 
Does not include reflections associated with the presentation 


Social media


Does not include social media icons from the top of public presentations 


Text areas


Includes all text formatting, equations, and custom characters 





--------------------------------------------------


Create a new collection

Organize Artifacts, Presentations, Reflections, or Learning Objectives by adding items to a collection. This also helps you to quickly and easily find your materials when you want to submit them to your teacher.
On your course navbar, click ePortfolio.Figure: The ePortfolio option in the Course Homepage.
Navigate to My Items and then click New Collection.Figure: The New Collection option.

In the New Collection page, specify the following fields:


Name: Enter a name for the collection.Figure: The Name field.


Description (Optional): Enter a collection description.Figure: The Description field.

                Tags (Optional): Input tags to associate with the collection that allow you to find items more easily.Figure: The Tags field.
Click Save and Close to save the collection and navigate to the Items in Collection page. Otherwise, click Save to stay on the created collection and configure other settings:


Comments / Assessments: Select the options to allow users with sufficient permission to add or view comments and assessments.Figure: The Comments / Assessments option.


Add Rubrics: Click the Add Rubrics button to select the rubrics to add to the collection.

Select a rubric and click the Add Selected button.Figure: The Add Rubrics page with a rubric selected.Note: Use the Search bar to search for rubrics or the Show Search Options to restrict your search query to certain item types, allowing you to find rubrics more easily.



Items in Collection: Click the Add to Collection button to add items in the created collection.Figure: The Add to Collection button.Note: Use the Search bar to search for rubrics or the Show Search Options to restrict your search query to certain item types, allowing you to find rubrics more easily.


Select Artifacts, Presentations, Reflections, or Learning Objectives.Figure: The Artifacts, Presentations, Reflections, or Learning Objectives option.


Select the items that you would like to add, then click Add.Figure: The Add to Collection page with items selected.Items are added to the collection.Figure: The added items to the collection.


Learning Objectives: Click the Associate Learning Objectives button to link the selected items to the available learning objectives. Select the objectives, then click Associate.Figure: The Associate Learning Objectives button.


If the Save and Close button is selected, you can configure the following in the Items in Collection page:

Reflections: Click the Add Reflection button to add a reflection related to the items in the collection.Figure: The Add Reflection button.

Enter a reflection title.Figure: The Title field.


Add your reflection paragraph.Figure: The Reflection field.


Select the Comments option to allow others to add or view comments to the reflection if they have sufficient permission.Figure: The Comments option.


After reviewing all the fields, click the Add button.The reflection is added to the collection.Figure: The added reflection.



Comments: Click the Add Comment button to add a comment on the items in the collection. Input a comment, then click Add.Figure: The Add Comment button.


The new collection is saved in the My Items > Collections in the ePortfolio dashboard.Figure: The Collections in the ePortfolio dashboard.
            Video: Create and add items to a collection
Add items to a collection using a Tag list
All items that use the tags specified in the Tag List are automatically added to the collection. If you share the collection with other users, you automatically share all of them.
Adding an item to your collection using a Tag List must contain all the tags identified in the list. For example, if you create a Tag List with the tags ‘science’, ‘astronomy’, and ‘Venus’, you must tag the item with all three words for it to add to the collection automatically upon creation. If you want the item only to require one of the tags, create three separate tag lists, each containing one of the tag words.
On the minibar, click ePortfolio.Figure: The ePortfolio option in the Course Homepage.
Navigate to My Items and click the drop-down button beside the collection you want to add items. Select Edit.Figure: The collection in the My Items page with the Edit button highlighted.
Scroll down to the Items in Collection area and click Add to CollectionFigure: The Add to Collection button.
Select Tag List. Figure: The Tag List option.

Enter a Tag List Name. In the Tags in List field, enter the tag for your list, then click Add Tag. Click Save after adding all the tagsFigure: The Add Items by Tags page.The added tags will show in the Item Details.

Click Save and Close.
Video: Tag lists to add items to a collection





--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace ePortfolio item assessment

You can enable comments on an artifact, collection, reflection, presentation, or learning objective. Use this feature to collaborate with peers so they may comment on your work, provide constructive criticism, or point out additional resources. 
You can enable assessments for an artifact, collection, reflection, presentation, or learning objective for users with the appropriate permissions to evaluate the item using a rubric. You must select which rubric you want to use from the list provided by your organization.
When other users comment on and assess an item in your Brightspace ePortfolio, their feedback becomes a part of the item. You can see it below the item's details when viewing the item or through the feeds and widgets on your dashboard. 
You can enable comments and assessments for all items by default or enable them individually on an item by item basis.
Video: Make items assessable by others

About editing and commenting on Brightspace ePortfolio items
In order to leave comments, assessments, or annotations on an item in a user's Brightspace ePortfolio, you must have the appropriate permissions. You can receive permissions to comment on, assess, or edit a user's work in one of two ways: 
The user gives you the appropriate permissions.
You set up a forced sharing group for users in a particular course that gives you the appropriate permissions.
Encouraging users to give you permission to comment on and assess portfolio items that relate to course work is an excellent way to provide users with informal, intermittent feedback. 
Video: Access items shared with you

Submit Brightspace ePortfolio items to an assignment 
You can submit your Brightspace ePortfolio items to an assignment in Brightspace for formal assessment. When you submit an item to a course assignment, a copy of the item goes to the Assignments tool. Future changes to the item in Brightspace ePortfolio do not transfer to the copy of the Assignment.
From your course navbar, click Assignments.Figure: The Assignments tool in the Course Homepage.
Select the assignment you want to make a submission to.Figure: The specific Assignment selected.
In the Submit Assignment area, click Add a File.Figure: The Add a File button.
From the tool panel, click ePortfolio.Figure: The ePortfolio option.
Choose the item to be submitted and click Select Item.Figure: The Select Item button.
Once the selected item is added, click Submit.Figure: The Submit button.
The page shows the summary details of the submitted item. After reviewing, click Done.Figure: The review page and the Done button.Your ePortfolio item is submitted as an assignment for assessment.




--------------------------------------------------


Share items with Brightspace ePortfolio

Share your Brightspace ePortfolio items internally and externally.
Share Brightspace ePortfolio items with internal users
Expand your knowledge with other users by sharing your ePortfolio items to collaborate effectively. Use permissions to share Brightspace ePortfolio items internally with other users. You can set up separate permissions options for each artifact, collection, reflection, presentation, and learning objective in your Brightspace ePortfolio so you can pick and choose what content you share with others. 
On the minibar, click ePortfolio.Figure: The ePortfolio option in the Course Homepage.
Navigate to My Items and click the drop-down button beside the item you want to share. Select Share.Figure: The selected item in the My Items page with the Share button highlighted.
In the Sharing Settings page, click Add Users and Groups.
Select from the following:To share Brightspace ePortfolio items with all users, select the All tab.To share Brightspace ePortfolio items with individual users, select the Users tab and select the users you want to add. Or you may use the search bar to search for a specific user.Figure: The Users tab with one user selected.To share with a sharing group, click the Sharing Groups tab, and select the groups you want to add.
In the Assign Permissions area, select specific permissions for the user(s) before sharing an item.Figure: The Assign Permissions option in the Sharing Settings field.
Select the visibility of the item you are going to share. If the Visible for specified date range option is selected, you can choose the start date and end date on which the item is visible. Click Save.Figure: The Visibility field with the Visible for specified date range option selected.
After reviewing all the details, click Send Invite.Figure: The Send Invite button.
Enter your invitation details and click Send.Figure: The Send button.
Share your item by sending an invitation to your ePortfolio.
Video: Share an item with Brightspace ePortfolio

Share Brightspace ePortfolio items with external users
You can also share Brightspace ePortfolio presentations externally with friends, parents, or potential employers in the following two ways: 
You can make the presentation publicly available to anyone through a URL. When you share a presentation this way people can only view the presentation. They cannot add comments, add assessments, or make edits to the presentation. 
You can send a personal invite to view your presentation via an email and the recipient can follow the attached link to view the presentation. The recipient must set up a username and password, and then they can see and add comments or assessments based on the permissions you gave them. External users cannot edit presentations. 
Send an invitation to a user
Have another user join you in your learning by sending them an invitation to your ePortfolio items. You can send invitations to internal users when you share an item with them. Sending an invitation gives you the opportunity to leave them a message about why you are sharing the item and what you’d like them to do with it. If you send an invite to a sharing group that includes all users at your organization or all users in a particular course or department, all of the users in the group receive the invite. 
On the minibar, click ePortfolio.Figure: The ePortfolio option in the Course Homepage.
Filter by My Items. Click the drop-down button next to the item you want to share, then select Share.Figure: The Share option.
In the Sharing List field, select users to whom you want to send an invitation. In case you do not see the user that you want to invite, click Add Users and Groups.Figure: The Add Users and Groups button.You can use the Search bar to look for a specific user.Figure: The Search bar in the Sharing Settings field.
Select specific permissions for the users before sharing an item.Figure: The Assign Permissions option in the Sharing Settings field.
Click Share.Figure: The Share button.
You can select the visibility of the item you are going to share. If the Visible for specified date range option is selected, you can choose the start date and end date which the item is visible. Click Save.Figure: The Visibility field with the Visible for specified date range option selected.
After reviewing all the details, click Send Invite.Figure: The Send Invite button.

Enter your invitation details, then click Send.
Figure: The Send button.

Your item will be shared by sending an invitation to your ePortfolio.
About viewing shared items
There are various ways for you to discover, categorize, follow, and review content shared with you in Brightspace ePortfolio. 

Sharing Method


Description 


Invites


Invites enable you to promote the content you're sharing with specific people. An invite contains information about who shared the item, when it was shared, what type of item it is, and any description or tags it has. The sender might also include a message letting you know why they shared the item. 
When you receive an invite from another user to view an item in their Brightspace ePortfolio, a notification appears on the minibar and the invite displays on your Brightspace ePortfolio dashboard in the Unread Invites area. In addition, you might receive an email informing you of the invite. You can also subscribe to the Invite RSS feed in your Brightspace ePortfolio  Settings to receive external updates about new invites. 


Subscriptions


Subscriptions enable you to follow activity on items or from specific people that interest you. You can subscribe to user or item activity from your dashboard, the Explore page, or your invites. 
Use the Subscriptions filter on your dashboard to view activity on items or from users you subscribed to. Recent subscription activity also appears in your minibar alerts.  


Friends List


Use the Friends List filter on the dashboard to view content shared with you or publicly from friends in your Instant Messages list. 


Minibar alerts


Alerts on the minibar signal new activity related to your subscriptions and invites. 
Message alerts display recently received invites. 
Update alerts display assessments made on items or by people you've subscribed to. 
Subscription alerts display comments made on items or by people you've subscribed to. 
When you click one of these icons, the five most recent alerts appear in a dropdown. When you click Load More, five more alerts appear.  All minibar alerts persist  for 90 days.


Email and SMS notifications


If you want to receive Brightspace ePortfolio updates externally, enable email or SMS notifications, which you can receive for the following situations:
An item you are subscribed to has feedback added to it
Another user subscribes to your updates
An item you created has feedback added to it

About creating quicklinks to Brightspace ePortfolio items
You can create quicklinks to Brightspace ePortfolio content in the same way as other quicklinks. However, the person following the link must have that item shared with them. 
If you include a quicklink to a Brightspace ePortfolio item in a form, reflection, artifact, or presentation, the referenced item does not inherit permissions from the item containing the link. This means that individuals viewing an item via the quicklink must also have direct permission to view the referenced item and follow the link; otherwise, they receive an error message letting them know they do not have permission to view the item.
Ignore shared items from a user
If you have the appropriate permissions, you can ignore shared items from other users. Once you ignore a user, all items (including items you are subscribed to) and invites belonging to them are hidden from your Announcements feed, the Unread Invites area, the Invites page, and the Explore page.
To ignore shared items from a user
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
Locate an item belonging to the user you want to ignore.
From the context menu of the item, click Ignore Items from User.Figure: The Ignore Items from User option of a shared presentation.
Click Ignore.
All items shared from the specified user will be ignored.
Restore ignored shared items
You can also restore any items you have chosen to ignore from the Ignore List.
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
Click Settings.
In the Ignore List area, beside the user whose items you want to restore, click the X Restore Items icon.Figure: The X Restore Items icon of Ignore List area in ePortfolio settings.
Click Restore > Save and Close.
All items shared from that user are restored and available.
Remove sharing permissions from an item
You can remove sharing permissions from a specific ePortfolio item.
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the context menu of the item from which you want to remove permissions, click Share.
In the Sharing List area, do one of the following:To remove a user or course offering from the item, click the Remove Permissions icon.To modify a user's permissions for the item, click the Edit Permissions icon. Select or clear permissions for the user. 
Click Close.
Sharing permissions are removed from your ePortfolio item.



--------------------------------------------------


Sharing groups in Brightspace ePortfolio

Create sharing groups to save the permissions you want a user or group of users to have so you can reuse the permissions for other items.
Create a sharing group
 You can create sharing groups for individual users or for all users in a particular course or group. You can have multiple sharing groups for the same users that you apply in different situations. For example, you can create sharing groups named Comment, and Edit and Review, and share them with the same group of peers. You would use the first sharing group for items you want to collect general feedback on, and the second sharing group for items that you want others to collaborate on or revise in detail. 
An organization, department, or course can also set up sharing groups and share them with you. Sharing groups that are shared with you are either optional (you can choose to apply them to specific items) or automatic (you have to use them). Automatically shared groups are either visible (appearing in your Sharing Groups area) or hidden (information on the group is not available to you). 
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
From the tool navigation, click Sharing Groups > New Sharing Group.
Enter a Name for your sharing group.Figure: Enter the Name and Description of your Sharing Group and click Save and Close.
Click Add Users.
Do one of the following:To add individual users to the sharing group, in the Users tab, click on the users you want to add.To add course offerings to the sharing group, in the Courses tab, click on the course offerings you want to add.
Under Assign Permissions, select the permissions you want the sharing group to have.Figure: Check which permissions you want in the Assign Permissions section.
Click Add > Save and Close.
A new sharing group is created and you can share your ePortfolio items with that group.
Video: Create a sharing group

Remove sharing permissions from a sharing group
You can remove sharing permissions from a sharing group. This removes the selected user or course offering from your sharing group.
Note: You cannot modify sharing groups that your course or organization shares with you.
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the Sharing Groups page, click on the sharing group for which you want to remove permissions.
In the Sharing Group Members area, do one of the following:To remove a user or course offering from the sharing group, click the Remove Permissions icon.Figure: Click the Remove Permissions icon to remove the corresponding permission.To modify a user's permissions in the sharing group, click the Edit Permissions icon. Select or clear permissions for the user. 
Click Save and Close.
The selected user or course offering is no longer part of your sharing group.



--------------------------------------------------


Share presentations with Brightspace ePortfolio

Share a presentation with all external users
If you make a presentation public via URL, the system includes social media icons  at the top of your presentation to enable further sharing. 
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the context menu of the item you want to share, click Share.
Select the Allow public viewing of presentation check box.
Share the provided URL with external users.
Click Close.
Share a presentation with specific external users
When you add an external user to your presentation using their email address, they receive an email with a link inviting them to set up a username and password to view the presentation. The invite expires after three days (or another amount of time set by your organization). 
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the context menu of the item you want to share, click Share.
Click Add Users and Groups.
In the Add External User by Email Address area, enter the email address for the user you want to add. Click Add.
In the Assign Permissions area, select the permissions you want the user to have.
Click Share > Close.
Your presentation is shared to the external user's email address.



--------------------------------------------------


Import and export Brightspace ePortfolio items

Import Brightspace ePortfolio items
You can only import Brightspace ePortfolio packages into your Brightspace ePortfolio. If you have other items you want to add to your Brightspace ePortfolio, you must add them individually. 
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.
On the My Items page, from the More Actions button, click Go to Import / Export page.
Click Import.
Click Browse. Locate the package you want to import. Click Open. 
Click Next > Import. 
About exporting Brightspace ePortfolio items
When you export an item, you also export the item's description, tags, and settings. You do not export information about the user who created the item, users who left comments on the item, or assessments for the item. 
With the exception of HTML presentations, you cannot export items for offline viewing. Exported items can only be imported into another Brightspace ePortfolio or systems that support the Brightspace ePortfolio XML format. 
You can export your entire Brightspace ePortfolio or specific items. If an item has multiple associations, it only appears once in the exported zip file. 
Export items in your Brightspace ePortfolio
Back up important items in your ePortfolio by exporting them.
On the navbar, click ePortfolio.Figure: The ePortfolio option in the Course Homepage.
Navigate to My Items. Click More Actions and select Go to Import / Export page.Figure: The Go to Import / Export page option.
Click the Export button.Figure: The Export button.
You can select to export either of the following:All Items: Export all items from your ePortfolio.Selected Items: Select only specific items from your ePortfolio to export.Figure: The option to select the type of items to export.If you select the All Items option, all items from your ePortfolio are selected automatically.If you choose the Selected Items option, click the Add Items button to select specific item(s) from your ePortfolio.Figure: The Add Items button.
To include items related to or associated with the items you are exporting, select the Automatically include associated items option.Figure: The Automatically include associated items option.Note: Items included multiple times will only appear once upon export.
Click Export.Figure: The Export button.
In the Export in progress window, click the View progress of the export package link to access the exported package download link.Figure: The View progress of the export package link.
Click the link to download the package as a zip archive.Figure: The download link.
Go to your Downloads folder and extract the .zip file to view your exported ePortfolio items.
What property changes occur when I export Brightspace ePortfolio items?

Property 


Notes


Access Log for presentations 


Does not include


Assessments


Does not include 


Change Log for Edit permission


Does not include 


Comments


Includes comments; does not retain commenter's name


Contents of a collection


Includes items within a collection only if you export the items at the same time


Forms


Includes form artifacts; does not include the form that the artifact is based on 
System fields do not maintain their values; the system generates these values based on the user that imports the form 
Does not maintain rubrics embedded in a form 


Items associated with a reflection


Includes associated items only if you export the items at the same time 


Items in a presentation


Includes items within a presentation only if you export the items at the same time 


Permissions


See [item] only 


Presentation layout


Navigation settings, page settings, page names, and text areas remain the same 
Maintains profile settings, but displays information corresponding to the user who imports the presentation 


Presentation theme


Does not include presentation theme; presentations revert to the default system theme on import 


Reflections associated with an artifact


Includes associated reflections only if you export the reflections at the same time 


Rubrics associated with an item


Does not include 


Tag lists for a collection (dynamic collections)


Does not retain tag lists; all collections become static on export 





--------------------------------------------------


Share information using the Blog tool

The Blog tool is a way to share information on topics that interest you. Use this page to post and respond to questions, engage in discussions, and share opinions and comments with other users. Blog entries can be public or private.
Blog tool overview
There are three key areas in the Blog tool:

Figure: The Blog tool interface is organized into several sections, which are described below.

My Blog: Allows you to create and maintain your blog.

New Entry: Create and control properties for new blog entries.


Preview Blog: After created, view your blog entry as it appears to others.



Blog Watch: Allows you to read other users' blogs.


Blog List: Allows you to indicate other users’ blogs you want to watch.

From the My Blog or the Blog Watch tabs, you can change the following settings for your blog on the Settings page:

Setting


Description


Show a link to your user profile from your blog


Users who are viewing your blog can also view your profile.


Make entries public by default


Selects the Make Public option for new blog entries so they are automatically shared with other users by default.


Allow comments by default


Selects the Allow comments option for new blog entries by default. Note that this option is only available if the Make entries public by default option is selected. 


Receive email when comments are added


Select this option to receive an email notification when a new comment is made on one of your blog entries.


Allow blog to be read by anyone


Users who are not logged into Brightspace can view your blog through an external URL. The External URL field contains the URL to share your blog. 
Note: You cannot access private blog entries by URL. 


Publish your blog as an RSS feed


Readers of your blog can link to your Site Feed and view your blog using an external RSS aggregator. To publish your blog in this way, you must enter a title for it in the Feed Title field.


Persistence


Enter a value in the Persistencefield to determine how long blog entries stay in your Blog Watch list. For example, if you enter 10, entries will remain in your Blog Watch for 10 days after being posted. If you set the value to 0, blog entries remain in your Blog Watch indefinitely. 

 



--------------------------------------------------


Manage your blog

The Blog tool allows you to create and edit blog posts, as well as view how your blog appears to others.
View your own blog 
To view how your blog appears to others
On the My Blog page, use the All Entries, Public Entries, and Private Entries tabs to view your blog entries.
Click Preview Blog. 
Tip: The Permalink field at the top of the Preview page lists a URL for your blog that can be accessed from any browser. 
Write a blog entry
On the My Blog page, click New Entry.
Enter a title. The title appears in the blog entry list after you publish it. 
Add content to your blog.
If you want to allow other users to view your blog entry, select Make entry public.
If you want to allow other users to comment on your blog entry, select Allow Comments.
If you want the blog entry to show a different date from the current date and time, change the Entry Date. To revert to the default values, click Now. The Blog displays the most recent entries first, according to the entry date you set. 
Click Save. 
After you create your blog entry, click Preview to view your blog as it appears to others and to view the permalink and social media links to share your blog outside of your course. 
Edit blog entries
On the My Blog page, from the context menu beside the title of the entry you want to edit, click  Edit.
Update the entry as desired.
Click Save. 




--------------------------------------------------


Find and follow other users' blogs

The Blog Watch keeps a list of blogs by your peers and other users that you want to follow. To populate your Blog Watch, you add blogs from the Blog List. Your Blog Watch is empty by default. 
Click Blog List.
Do one of the following:
Search for a user's blog by entering any portion of their first or last name in the Search For field. Navigate the list of users. You can sort the table by clicking any of the column names. If you go to a new page, you lose the users that you selected on the previous page. 
Select the check box beside any user that you want to watch. 
Click Add.
To see recent posts from the blogs that you follow, click Blog Watch.



--------------------------------------------------


Publish your blog as an RSS feed

You can publish your blog as an RSS feed which any external news reader (RSS aggregator) can read. Depending on your organization, you might not have permission to use the RSS feed functionality.
Click  Settings, then select Publish your blog as an RSS feed.
Enter a title and a description.
Click Save.
Share the External URL with other users to share your blog. 




--------------------------------------------------


Add blog comments

In the blog entry you want to comment on, click the Add Comment link. The writer must enable comments on their blog in order for you to see the Add Comment link. 
In the Comment field, enter your comment. Select Make this comment anonymous to submit an anonymous comment. 
Click Save Comment. 




--------------------------------------------------


Delete blog comments

You can remove comments on your own blog. You cannot delete comments on another user's blog.
On the My Blog page, click  Edit from the context menu of the blog entry or click the Comments link inside the entry. 
Click the Delete icon beside the comment. 




--------------------------------------------------


Manage audio-video content with Media Library

Record with your webcam
Quickly record and create content in Media Library using the Record Webcam option. 
Using the Record Webcam option, you can record video or audio within Media Library and create audio-video topics or insert them inline via ISF.
The Audio Only toggle in Video Note allows users to easily switch from a Video Note to an Audio Note.
On your course homepage, navigate to Media Library.
In Media Library, click Add, then clickRecord Webcam.

Figure: Media Library with the Add drop-down menu showing the Record Webcam option.
If your browser prompts you to allow microphone and camera access, click Allow.
Click New Recording to start your webcam recording. If you only want to record audio, turn the Audio only option ON.

Figure: Media Capture dialog with the New Recording and Audio only toggle switch options.
When you finish recording, click Stop Recording > Next.
Enter a Title, Description, and select the Audio Language. Select Automatically generate captions from audio if you want auto-generated captions.
Click Finish.

Figure: The Record Webcam dialog showing the Title, Description, and Audio Language options.
Note: An Uploading dialog appears at the bottom-right of the Media Library page to indicate the percentage of your video uploaded so far. A check mark appears in the dialog when the upload is complete.

Figure: The Uploading dialog showing the percentage of a video uploaded so far.
Delete multiple audio-video content items in Media Library
You can select multiple audio-video items in Media Library and delete them.
To select multiple audio-video items and delete

Navigate to Media Library.


Select the check boxes next the audio-video content you wish to apply bulk actions to. Or click the top checkbox to select all content for bulk actions.Figure: The Media Library page with audio-video content selected.


Click options ( ... ) next to Modified to access the following options:

Delete: Select Delete and click Delete to move selected content to the Recycle Bin.

The selected audio-video content is moved to the Recycle bin.
Note: Content moved to the Recycle Bin is permanently deleted after 90 days. To restore deleted content, click Recycle Bin select the options ( ... ) and click Restore.

Insert Stuff from the Media Library using Brightspace Editor
You can use the Insert Stuff icon in the Brightspace Editor to add audio-video content from the Media Library.

Figure: The Insert Stuff icon of the Brightspace Editor.
Note: The ability to use Media Library is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see Media Library in the Insert Stuff window, you will need to ask your administrator to enable the role permission for Content Service > Can Manage Objects.
To insert stuff from the Media Library
From the Brightspace Editor, click Insert Stuff.
Select Media Library.Figure: The Insert Stuff page with Media Library selected.
To locate audio-video content, enter a search term and click Search.Note: For a more refined search, click Search Options to filter your search.
Select the content you want to add and click Next.Figure: The Insert Stuff search page showing the Search field and Search Options with displayed search results.
Under Properties, customize the aspect ratio and maximum size of the video player.
Note: The player is responsive and scales to fit smaller screens if the video player size cannot maintain its maximum width or height. 
Click Insert.
Locate and insert Media Library Quicklinks with improved filter options
You can use the Insert Quicklink icon in the Brightspace Editor to add Media Library Quicklinks to your content.
Figure: The Insert Quicklink icon of the Brightspace Editor.
Note: The ability to use Media Library is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see Media Library in the Insert Quicklinks window, you will need to ask your administrator to enable the role permissions for Content Service > Can Manage Objects.
To insert Media Library quicklinks
From the Brightspace Editor, click Insert Quicklinks.
Select Media Library.Figure: The Insert Quicklinks page with Media Library selected.
Click to expand Filters. You can filter Medial Library content by:
Ownership: Filter by the owner of the  audio-video (AV) content (administrators only).Note: The owner of AV content is the person who initially uploaded or added the content. However, ownership of AV content can be reassigned to a different user by an administrator.Content Type: Filter by either audio or video content type.Source: Filter by where content was added from. Multiple filters can be selected:Content: Filter by AV content uploaded from the Content tool and Lessons.Media Library: Filter by AV content uploaded or created in Media Library.Audio or Video Note: Filter by content created using Audio and Video Note.Capture App: Filter by content created and published using the Capture App.Note: The Capture App is accessible when using Create Presentation in Media Library and is only available as part of Creator+.Imported: Filter by content added from course imports.Other: Filter by content added prior to the addition of source tracking.Content: Filter by AV content uploaded from the Content tool and Lessons.Media Library: Filter by AV content uploaded or created in Media Library.Audio or Video Note: Filter by content created using Audio and Video Note.Capture App: Filter by content created and published using the Capture App.Note: The Capture App is accessible when using Create Presentation in Media Library and is only available as part of Creator+.Imported: Filter by content added from course imports.Other: Filter by content added prior to the addition of source tracking.Date Modified: Filter by date modified. This changes to Date Deleted on the Recycle Bin screen.Date CreatedFigure: The filter options included with the Insert Quicklink feature of Brightspace Editor.
Select the content you want to add and click Next.
Click Insert.




--------------------------------------------------


View and download audio-video transcripts

Improve accessibility for your audio-video content by viewing and downloading transcripts.
Transcript View allows users to pair playback of a video file with scrolling captions. This introduces the View transcript option in the Media Player that allows you to download the transcript in .txt format or the caption track in .vtt format. The .vtt file provides time codes with the transcript text.
Note: Users can only download a caption if one has been added  or auto-generated. If no captions have been added, a user cannot to use the transcript view option.
To view and download a transcript
On your course homepage, navigate to anywhere that Media Player is available. 
Click on the video with the transcript you want to view and download.
On the video screen, click Settings (gear icon) then click View transcript.

Figure: The transcript view while using Media Player from a module in Content.
The transcript appears with the playable video in the upper-left corner. Click Download. Then click either Transcript (.txt) or Captions (.vtt).Figure: The Download option displaying the Transcript and Captions download options.
You have downloaded a transcript or caption from your video.



--------------------------------------------------


Navigate course content in the new Learner Experience or in the New Content Experience (Lessons)

As a learner you can access Content in different views:
Classic Content Experience
New Learner Experience
New Content Experience (Lessons)
New Learner Experience
If the content in your course appears like the image below, you are using the New Learner Experience.

Figure: View of the table of contents when the New Learner Experience is enabled.
In the new Learner Experience, the table of contents allows you to explore all available content (modules, topics, and activities) within the course. At any time, you can choose an available module to view; you aren't forced to view modules in a specific sequence.
When you initially access a course, a Get Started tile prompts you to start the first course module. When you finish viewing content and return to the course, a Continue tile displays, allowing you to quickly resume from where you last finished viewing the content. The most recently visited unit and topics still automatically expand on the next visit.
When you navigate to the table of contents, only top-level units and the active lesson are expanded. All other modules are collapsed. When you expand a module (unit or lesson), a temporary placeholder appears for each expected topic and module while they are being retrieved and rendered. Clicking a unit or lesson name expands or collapses the contents of the module.
If the number of modules in your course exceeds the maximum number that your organization has configured to display on a Content page, you can use the Load More button to load all available modules and their content. This button displays the number of available and currently displayed objects.
To view the module description and topics within the module, click Launch Unit or Launch Lesson.
The table of contents shows you how many of the required activities you have completed for each module, and adds a checkmark beside each activity as you complete it. Optional activities are not included in the count and do not get a checkmark. The completion tracking information helps you  easily identify which modules and activities you haven't started. 

Figure: View of the Table of Contents with a module expanded, the Launch Unit button, the Load More button, and completion status.
In the new Learner Experience, when you decide what you want to view, click the item from the table of contents. The item displays in a full screen viewer, allowing you to focus exclusively on the content, free from distractions in the interface. You can click Print or Download to continue studying your content offline.

Figure: Full screen viewer with the navigation menu open
From the title bar, navigate sequentially through content by clicking the arrow buttons or choose specific content to view by clicking an item from the navigation menu. At any time, you can return to the table of contents by clicking Back to Content.
To provide you with more contextual course information in the new Learner Experience, a section in the navigation menu displays the name of the course and module progress.
When you reach the end of a module, a dynamic page congratulates you on your achievement and displays completion status information for the module. If applicable, a reminder about incomplete content displays. Clicking on an item in the list takes you to that content. To return to the table of contents, click Back to Content.

Figure: Completion tracking in the new Learner Experience.
You can click Mark as Complete at the bottom of the topic page if the instructor has set the topic as requiring manual completion. Manual completion is available for the following topic types:
LTI Links
Web Links
Course files
LOR links, etc.Figure: The Mark as Complete button on the topic page. The Mark as Complete button on the topic page is disabled, the topic is marked as completed.
Once a topic is marked as complete, it is impossible to unmark its completion.
When you complete your course session, ensure that you end the session properly by using the Log Out option on the Learner menu.
Video: New Learner Experience
New Content Experience (Lessons)
If the content in your course appears like the image below, you are using the New Content Experience (Lessons).

Figure: Course content in the New Content Experience (Lessons).
In this experience, Learners can navigate the course using the table of contents on the left. When a Learner selects an item on the left, the content displays to the right of the table of contents. Any sub-modules display in the table of contents, below the selected module.
Video: Navigate the Lessons View in Content
View files as text or pages
You can view your documents located in your modules, like PDFs and PowerPoints,  either as a page or as text. You can switch to a text view by clicking the View as Text option in your module.

Figure: The View as Text option in a document.
You can switch back to a page view by click the View as Page option, which can be found by scrolling to the bottom of your document.

Figure: The View as Page view in a document.
When you complete your course session, ensure that you end the session properly by using the Log Out option on the Learner menu: 
Note: Currently, although completion of topics is tracked, completion status is not available directly in the New Content Experience (Lessons). Learners can verify their progress of content topics using Class Progress.
Troubleshooting PowerPoints
You may unintentionally change or open a PowerPoint in a text view. The text view may also make PowerPoints unreadable if they are not formatted in a way that conforms to Brightspace. To change from the text view to view the PowerPoint as a page or slideshow, click View as Page.

Figure: An example of a PowerPoint that does not conform to Brightspace. Click View as Page to view the PowerPoint in the original slideshow format.
After clicking View as Page, your PowerPoint appears correctly and in the original format. You can click View as Text to switch back to a text view if desired.

Figure: A PowerPoint in its original presentation format. Click View as Text to return to the text view.



--------------------------------------------------


Create and insert a video note in Brightspace Editor

 Record videos up to 25 minutes long and add them anywhere where the Brightspace Editor is available. To help ensure all users can learn without barriers, closed captions are automatically created.
Note: The ability to add video notes is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see the Add Video Note option, you do not have the required permission. Videos respect the settings you define in the Attributes page.
Navigate to the specific area in your course where you want to add a Video Note (Assignments, Discussions, Quizzes).
Within the Brightspace Editor, click Insert Stuff.

Figure: The Insert Stuff button in Brightspace Editor.
In the new dialog box, click Add Video Note.
Note: Ensure that you allow Brightspace to access your device’s camera and microphone.
To record your message, click New Recording.
To finalize your message, click Stop Recording.
Click Next.

Figure: The Insert Video Note dialog box.
Enter a Title, Description, and select Audio Language.
To generate captions automatically, select Automatically generate captions from audio.
Note: You must choose an Audio Language in order to generate captions.
Click Next.
Click Insert.
Reuse video notes
If you created previous video notes, and if you have the permissions to search and insert video notes, you can reuse them where applicable.
Navigate to the specific area where you want to reuse an existing video note.
In the Brightspace Editor, click the Insert Stuff icon.
Click Video Note Search.

Figure: The Video Note Search option within the Insert Stuff dialog box.
Enter your search terms in the Search Notes field, then click Search. You can also perform a blank search to see all search results.
Select the video you want to reuse and click Next.
You can preview the video notes before you insert and reuse it.
Click Insert.
There are two potential reasons your content may not be working:

When using the Insert Stuff framework to add a YouTube video or other embedded media in a Content frame, the certain internet browsers block the content because it is unsecure without informing the user that there is actually an invisible block around where the media should be. This makes it appear as if the insert failed even though the browser is actually blocking the unsecure content. 
To resolve this issue, the URL that is linked from within the Content frames must use https:// and not an http:// URL. It may be necessary to reconsider linking to content If the destination site doesn't have an https://. If it is necessary,  know that you need to enable the ability to view unsecure content.


It is possible your course is Sandboxed. To enhance the security of content files that execute scripts to create extra-rich HTML experiences (such as objects that can execute JavaScript), there is a sandboxing feature that creates a secure iFrame around the HTML file. This allows an HTML file to execute scripts (such as JavaScript) within the iFrame only but will prevent them from executing outside the iFrame (against the domain). This enables some flexibility in creating rich content, and provides reassurance for the security-conscious that end user information remains secure in all situations (such as in courses where non-privileged roles are contributing content.) 
To find out if your course is sandboxed, contact your instructor.





--------------------------------------------------


Record audio-video content in Media Library

Media Library offers a consolidated media processing, storage, and streaming option for all audio-video materials. Any media files that you create are stored in the Media Library repository. Use Media Library's Media Player and the Record Webcam option to create content for discussions or assignments in Brightspace. 
Note: Your capabilities in Media Library will vary depending on your institution. If a functionality is not available that you need, contact your instructor or institution.

On your course homepage, navigate to Media Library.
Note: The Media Library tool can be located on your navbar, in Course Tools > Media Library, or More > Media Library.


Click Add > Record Webcam.

            Figure: The Add drop-down menu with the Record Webcam option highlighted.

In the Record Webcam dialog, click New Recording to begin your audio-video recording. If you want to only record audio, toggle the Audio only switch to ON.


Figure: The Record Webcam dialog with the New Recording and Audio only options.

When you finish recording, click Stop Recording.


Click Next.


Figure: The Record Webcam dialog with recorded audio-video content and the Next option.

Enter a Title, Description, and choose an Audio Language for your recording. Select the Automatically generate captions from audio checkbox to generate captions for your recording.

Note: You must select an Audio Language to generate captions.

Click Finish to upload your recording to Media Library.


Figure: Details for a recording with the Title, Description, and Audio Language fields.



--------------------------------------------------


Troubleshoot missing course content

No content in my course / Missing modules or topics
There are several reasons why course materials might be missing from Content:

The course has not yet started. 

You may have  access to a course, but if the course start date has not yet passed, it is possible that your instructor did not add any materials for you to review.


Reach out to your instructor to learn when you will get access to course content materials.



The content you are looking for is hidden.

Contact your instructor to verify they made the materials you are looking for visible to the class.



The content’s release conditions are not met.

                            Instructors can set release conditions for content to appear only after certain criteria are met.

For example, a learner must pass “Quiz A” before they are able to view “Module B”.



Check your course syllabus as information could be included concerning any release conditions that may be attached to content.


Contact your instructor for further information on whether there is a release condition attached to the module that is missing.


Unable to click on Content modules or topics

The content you are trying to click on has a start date that has not yet passed or is associated with an end date that already passed. 

Contact your instructor for further information if the content’s availability seems incorrect.



Figure: Content topics with future start dates are unavailable.
Error messages when accessing content links
Internal Error message: You will receive this message when the website runs into internal workflow issues. 

If you click on a link that points to an item within a tool in Brightspace (Assignments, Discussions, other Content areas, etc.), go to the tool and check if you can access the item from there.


If you can, contact your instructor and inform them of the broken content link. 


If you can’t, contact the D2L Helpdesk for further help in diagnosing the problem.


Figure: If you receive an Internal Error message, contact your instructor, or reach out to the D2L Helpdesk for further help.
Not authorized message: You will receive this message when you don’t have access to the page within Brightspace.

If you are clicking a content link that points to an item within a tool in Brightspace (Assignments, Discussions, other Content areas, etc.), go to the tool and check if you can access the item from there.

If you can, contact your instructor and inform them of the issue you are encountering. 


If you can’t, contact your instructor for guidance on next steps.



Figure: If you receive a Not authorized message, contact your instructor
Broken Content links: If you receive an error message when clicking an external link through content and are unable to reach the page, reach out to your instructor to inform them of the broken link they added to the course.
Page not found or 404 error: This error occurs when a link points to a page that does not exist. If you cannot find the linked page, contact your course instructor.
Audio-video files are not playing
If you are unable to play audio or video files in Content, this is most likely the result of a missing plugin required to play the file.

To check whether this is the issue, complete the system check found on the Brightspace login page.


Ensure that all plugins are enabled and update any programs if needed (Java, Adobe, etc.).


You can also restart your browser and clear your cache before trying to play the audio or video file again.


Contact your instructor if you tried all the above and are still encountering an issue.

YouTube videos and other embedded media are not working
When external media (such as YouTube videos) is embedded into the Content tool, your browser may block the content since it is deeming it not secure. This will prevent the media from being played.

To resolve this issue, ensure that you enabled the ability to view unsecured content in your browser.

Course activity expectations and instructions: To receive clarification on any assignment expectations or instructions, reach out to your instructor directly for them to answer your questions.
Downloading content
Click on the content page that you want to download. At the bottom of the page, click Download.
Note: You can only download course content if you have the appropriate permissions assigned to you. If you do not have the permissions to download content, the Download button will not display.



--------------------------------------------------


Submit and manage assignments

Understanding due dates and end dates
A due date is the submission deadline of an assignment in your course. This date is specific to assignments only. 
End dates are attached to assignments. The end date is the final date an assignment is available for you to submit to, regardless of the due date. Once the end date of the assignment is past, you are no longer able to submit, no matter what the assignment's due date is. 
You can check these dates  and date settings on the Assignment List page. The hover tooltip includes the information about start and end dates with settings to explain how the assignment appears before and after these dates.
Figure: The Assignment page with activity dates and date settings.
Submit an assignment
The Assignments tool enables you to submit assignments in Brightspace, eliminating the need to mail, fax, or email your work to instructors. 
Note: Your instructor controls what file types and extensions are permitted for an assignment submission. Before submitting your assignment, confirm on the assignment submission page in the section Allowed File Extensions what file types can be submitted.

Figure: Review the permitted file extensions on your assignment submission page.
To submit an assignment
From the navbar, click Assignments. 
On the Assignments page, click on the assignment you want to submit to.

Figure: Selecting an assignment for submission.
Follow the assignment instructions, and do one of the following:
Type your assignment directly in the Text Submission field. When you finish your written response, click Submit.Note: Text submissions have a character limit of 1,048,576 characters.
To browse for the file you want to submit, click Add a File. Select the files from your local computer or storage device, a personal locker, a group locker, or Brightspace ePortfolio, and then click Add. Enter any comments you want to submit with the file. Click Submit.
You can select Record Audio to add feedback. When you finish a recording, click Add. Enter any comments you want to submit with the file. Click Submit.
If your instructor enabled e-rater ® Grammar feedback, to view grammar feedback on your assignment, on the Submission History page, click the View e-rater® grammar feedback link in the Inline Feedback column.If your assignment allows multiple submissions, you can incorporate any grammar feedback and resubmit your assignment.
Notes:
If the assignment  is Turnitin enabled, the file you submitted is pre-validated at the time of submission to ensure it is within the Turnitin file type and size requirements.
If you are submitting on behalf of a group, the submission appears for all members of the group. Any feedback is also visible to all group members.
If Online Grading or Similarity Report has been enabled, you can view your Submission ID within your Submission History page.
Depending on your course settings, you may be able to view any rubrics that are used to evaluate your work directly on the submission page. 
If you need to find or cannot access your assignment dropbox, contact your  instructor.
If you have questions on how to complete your assignment, contact your  instructor.
View an assignment
From the Assignments tool, click on the assignment you want to submit to.

Figure: The Assignments tool showing a list of assignments.
Make a Text submission
Type your assignment directly in the Comments field.
When you finish your written response, click Submit.

Figure: The Submit Assignment page with the Comments section and Submit option highlighted.
Make a File submission
To browse for the file you want to submit, click Add a File. You can attach files from your local computer or storage device, a personal locker, a group locker, or Brightspace Portfolio.
Enter any comments you want to submit with the file.
Click Submit.

Figure: Click Add a File to select a file from your device. Then click Submit.
Add an audio or video submission
Click Record Audio or Record Video.
Note: Allow your browser to access your microphone and webcam.

Figure: Click Record Audio or Record Video to create your media content.
To upload an audio or video file from your device, click Upload File >  Choose File.

Figure: Click Choose File to select a file from your device. Then click Upload File.
Click Add.

Figure: Click Add to include the file in your submission.
Enter a Title, Description, and Audio Language for your recording or file. Click the Automatically generate captions from audio checkbox to enable closed captioning for your file.
Click Add.

Figure: Enter the details of your submission in the Title, Description, and Audio Language fields.
Enter any comments you want to submit with the recording or file.
Click Submit.

Figure: Enter any additional details for your assignment in the Comments section and click Submit.
Note:
If you would like to edit or delete an assignment after submitting it, contact your instructor.
If your instructor enabled e-rater ® Grammar feedback, to view grammar feedback on your assignment,  click the View e-rater® grammar feedback link in the Inline Feedback column on the Submission History page. If your assignment allows multiple submissions, you can incorporate any grammar feedback and resubmit your assignment.
If the assignment is Turnitin enabled, the file you submitted is pre-validated at the time of submission to ensure it is within the Turnitin file type and size requirements.
If Online Grading or Similarity Report is enabled, you can view your Submission ID in your Submission History page.
Depending on your course settings, you may be able to view any rubrics that are used to evaluate your work directly on the submission page.
Video: Assignments overview

Video: Submit and Confirm a Submission

Video: Resubmit assignments

Edit or delete an assignment submission
When a file is successfully submitted to an assignment folder, you can’t delete it. However, if you have the permissions to make another submission, re-submit the file and make sure to also contact your instructor to let them know about your re-submission.
To re-submit an assignment submission
Navigate to the Assignments tool in your course.
Click on the assignment folder where you would like to edit or delete a submitted file.

Figure: Assignment folder with an existing submission.
Click Add a File to add another file to the assignment folder.
Enter any comments you want to submit with this new file.
Click Submit.
Contact your instructor directly to inform them of your resubmission.
If you do not have the ability to make another submission, contact your instructor and let them know that you would like to re-submit a file to the affected assignment.
Troubleshoot Assignments
You might occasionally experience a problem when attempting to upload your assignment file. This section provides you with the errors you might encounter when uploading your assignment and troubleshooting solutions.
Assignment unable to be submitted or resubmitted
There are multiple reasons for why you may not be able to submit an assignment. You may not be able to submit an assignment for the following reasons:
The end date has passed and your instructor has disabled late submissions.
Access is restricted for your assignment. This could be because your instructor has only made the assignment available for a specific start and end date or you must complete other course activities, like a quiz or view content, before being able to submit your assignment.
Your instructor has turned off the assignment's visibility and made it hidden for learners. 
You are not uploading the correct file type or including specific details for your assignment. For more information about assignment and uploading errors, refer to the latter parts of this topic.
Your instructor only allows one submission for the assignment, so you cannot resubmit your assignment.
You require special access to submit the assignment.
If you cannot submit or resubmit your assignment, contact your instructor and ask them to perform the necessary steps to allow assignment submission.
Assignment is not available or cannot find assignment
Assignments often have start and end dates that control when an assignment is available or visible. Instructors can also control whether an assignment is visible or not for learners when they create the assignment. If you are supposed to be able to access and view your assignment but you can't see it, contact your instructor and ask them to make the assignment available.
If you are having trouble locating your assignment, access the module related to your assignment in the Content tool. If you still can't find your assignment, navigate to the Assignments tool and search for your assignment name. If your assignment is not available in the Assignments tool and should be, contact your instructor.
Error: Field is required. Select at least one file to upload.
You will receive this error message when you click Add before your file gets completely uploaded.
To resolve this, wait until the green loading bar on your file name has finished loading and click Add.
Error: This file extension is not allowed
When you attempt to upload a file submission for an assignment of a file extension type that the instructor restricted, an error message appears.

Figure: An alert message indicating that a restricted file cannot be uploaded.
To resolve this, before uploading a file, review the allowable file types listed on the Submit Assignment dialog and upload only the allowable file type.

Figure: Submit an assignment file of the type listed in the Allowable File Extensions section.
Error: Oops, your file could not be uploaded
The cause of this error message may be due to an invalid file name, network issues, or if the file that is being uploaded is beyond the file upload limit.
To troubleshoot and resolve this issue, check the following:
File name. Your file does not upload when:
The file name contains illegal characters. The file name should not contain illegal characters. Rename your file and try uploading again. Some examples of illegal characters are: \ / : * ? “ < > | ~ # % & ' { }
The file name is too long. We recommend that you keep the file name under 120 characters.
File size. The File Upload function in Brightspace supports up to 2GB per file, depending on your organization’s settings.
To reduce the file size
If your file contains images, you can reduce the resolution or size of the images.
If your file contains many pages, try splitting this into two files. For example, in a presentation, you can create one file for slides 1-5 and one file for slides 6-10.
Internet connection
The file uploader in Brightspace uploads files in 10MB chunks. If one 10MB chunk takes longer than two minutes to upload, the upload process times out and your file will not continue to upload.
Your upload speed depends on your Internet connection.
Always upload files using a wired Internet connection rather than wireless whenever possible.
If you have access to a faster network, upload from this network (For example, Home, on campus).
To check your Internet connection speed
Go to an Internet speed test site and test your i=Internet speed.
Your upload speed determines how fast your file uploads. Along with the overall size of your file, a larger file takes longer to upload. Although there is no minimum Internet connection speed necessary to use Brightspace, the better your upload speed, the faster your files will upload.
Upload the correct file
When you save a file in Microsoft Office, like a file called assignment.docx, you may find two files saved on your computer: assignment.docx and ~$assignment.docx.
This is because Office creates both a temporary file and the document file, where the temporary file begins with ~$. Ensure you are uploading the actual document instead of the temporary file as the temporary file will not open and contains no data.
Error: Unavailable Quicklink
You may encounter this error when you click the assignment submission folder link from the Content tool or on an announcement post.
The cause of this error is if the assignment folder is not visible on the Assignments page because it may have been hidden, has a release condition, or does not exist. If the assignment is visible but grayed out, either the assignment has not opened yet or it’s already closed.
Contact your instructor for further help accessing the assignment submission folder if this is the case.

Figure: The Unavailable Quicklink error appears after clicking the assignment submission link.
Browser issues
You may encounter an issue with uploading your assignment when the page is not loading properly, the assignment page is blank, or the page is unresponsive.
In this case, we recommend that you make sure you’re using a supported web browser. If the browser is supported, make sure it is updated.
Read more for how to update:
Google Chrome
Mozilla Firefox
Microsoft Edge
Safari
If updating your browser did not work, use a different supported browser, restart your computer, or clear browsing history, cache, and cookies.
Note: Clearing your browser history, cache, and cookies will permanently remove the your browsing history, cache, and cookies that you saved.
Find and review feedback
Tip: You can also view assignment feedback from User Progress and Grades.
On the navbar, click  Assignments.
From the Assignments page, locate your assignment, and click Unread in the Evaluation Status column.
From the View Feedback page, you can view your submission feedback, rubric assessment, and grade.
If your instructor added annotated feedback to the assignment, click View Inline Feedback. The annotation view opens in a new tab, displaying annotated feedback using highlighting, free hand drawing, shapes, and associated commenting.
To download the annotated assignment as a PDF, click Download. 
When you are finished viewing feedback, navigate back to the View Feedback page and click Done.




--------------------------------------------------


Add Files from Google Drive

Collaborate and create with the Google Workspace integration for Brightspace. By syncing your Google account to Brightspace, you can access Google software and products like  Google Drive and Google Docs, which allows you to use Google Workspace to complete and submit course assignments and organize your work.
Access and add a file submission for an assignment

On your course homepage, navigate to Content.


Click on the assignment where you want to add a file.


Click Choose Existing. You may have to expand the Add Attachments drop-down to view this option.


Figure: Click Choose Existing to select an existing assignment.

In the Add a File dialog, click Google Drive.


Figure: Click Google Drive to select an assignment from your Google Drive.

Click Sign in to Google Workspace or click Sign in to a Personal Account.

Note: You only have to sign in to your account the first time you access Google Workspace or your personal Google account in Brightspace.

Figure: Click the desired sign-in option.

In your Google Drive, select the file you want to upload and click Upload.


Click Submit.





--------------------------------------------------


Using the Quizzes tool

Use the Quizzes tool to take a quiz (start a quiz), review your quiz results, and see class statistics for a quiz.
Access quizzes using the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Quizzes can be used as a benchmark to track your learning progress. Your instructor may provide you with several assessments for you to access and complete throughout the duration of your course.
To access quizzes using the New Content Experience
On your course homepage, navigate to Content.
Navigate to the module where the quiz is located.
Click on the name of the quiz that you want to take.Figure: A quiz in a module in Content.
Access quizzes using the Classic Content experience
You can also access quizzes using the Classic Content experience.
To access quizzes using the Classic Content experience
Navigate to Content within your course.
Navigate to the module where the quiz is located.
Click on the name of the quiz that you want to take.Figure: Accessing a quiz through a module in Content.Note: If you are still unable to find a quiz, reach out to your instructor for further assistance.
Access quizzes from the Quizzes tool
Use the Quizzes tool to review a list of quizzes available to you.
To access quizzes from the Quizzes tool
Navigate to the Quizzes tool on the navbar.
See a list of available quizzes in the Quiz List.
Click on the quiz that you want to take.Figure: Access a quiz through the Quiz List page in Quizzes.
Visual Tour: Quiz Details page
Figure: The Quiz Details page displaying the quiz elements.
Current Time: Shows the current time where you are.
Current User: Displays your name and Brightspace username.
Quiz Period: The start date and end date for the quiz.
Time Allowed: The time you have to complete the quiz.
Attempts: The amount of times you are allowed to take the quiz.
Instructions: Explains how the quiz works.
Start Quiz!: Click this when you are ready to begin your quiz.
Notes: 
Your institution may require you to use Respondus LockDown Browser® to take quizzes. You can click the Respondus LockDown Browser link in the Quiz Requirements section to download and install it for free. You can then launch your quiz. If you have installed the Respondus LockDown Browser already, the Start Quiz page will open automatically within it.
Your instructor may set a password to access your quiz. If you do not know your password or the password provided is not working, contact your instructor.
The Start Quiz! button may not be visible in the following scenarios:
The quiz hasn’t started yet.
The quiz has already been completed.
All allowed attempts have been used.
The quiz has ended.
Asynchronous and synchronous quizzes
Brightspace  currently provides the following types of quizzes:
Asynchronous quizzes: you can launch asynchronous quizzes at any time within specified availability dates by clicking the Start Quiz! button.
Synchronous quizzes: if your instructor sets up a synchronous quiz, the quiz timer starts at the Start Date and ends when the time limit has lapsed, regardless of any action taken by the learner. For example, if you click Start Quiz! 15 minutes after the start date on a 1-hour quiz, you only have 45 minutes left to complete it. To indicate when a quiz becomes available, you can use a countdown timer on the Quiz Information and Start Quiz pages. The Start Quiz! button becomes available when the start date and time is reached.

Figure: A countdown timer for a synchronous quiz on the Start Quiz page.
Quiz List View
Review your quiz feedback and results directly from the Quiz List view in the Quizzes tool.
Figure: Quiz List view elements.
Current Quizzes: Lists current quizzes that are available to take according to the availability dates and times that are set by your instructor.
Future Quizzes: Lists any upcoming quizzes that your instructor created for you to complete in the future.
Evaluation Status: Indicates if you can access your completed quiz results and feedback. Clicking On Attempt will bring you to the quiz’s submission view so that you can review how you did on your assessment.Note: If there is no submission view available, or if you have a written response question that was not graded and displays the message "This question has not been graded", reach out to your instructor for further assistance. 
Attempts: Shows the number of attempts you have made for a quiz and the number of total attempts available for you to take.
Take a quiz
During taking your quiz the following options are available:
Option to show or hide the timer to reduce anxiety. Once you set your preference, your last choice is remembered for the next quiz you take. Figure: Click Hide Timer beside the quiz timer to hide the timer from the view.Special warnings at certain times help you to support awareness of time left:1 minute remaining on the quiz5 minutes remaining (only available on quizzes with 10 minutes or longer quiz time limit)half of the elapsed time (only available on quizzes with  20 minutes or longer quiz time limit)Figure: The Timer Warning dialog indicates how much longer a learner has in a quiz.Figure: Click the Quiz Information option on the quiz page to view instructions and other information without leaving the quiz.Note: If your instructor has added bonus questions to your quiz, those questions are indicated with "Bonus"Figure: Bonus questions are indicated with "Bonus".
When you complete a quiz attempt or return later to view your quiz results you can check that your attempt was submitted on the Quiz Results page.Figure: The Quiz Results page.
Take a quiz with negative grading enabled
Your instructor may have negative grading enabled for a quiz. This is intended to discourage you from guessing on quiz questions by deducting a percentage of the point value for a quiz question if you answer incorrectly. For example, if a quiz question is graded out of 1 point, your instructor may set that question to deduct 25% or 0.25 points from that quiz question if you answer incorrectly. If you are about to start a quiz with negative grading enabled, the quiz Summary page provides instructions to notify you.

Figure: Review the quiz Summary page to determine if your quiz has negative grading enabled.
Once you select Start Quiz, and begin answering questions, you can select Clear Selection to clear any multiple-choice or true or false questions  you have answered, but are unsure about. Clearing your answer ensures that you are given a grade of 0 for the question when you submit, instead of being deducted a percent value for a possible incorrect answer.

Figure: Select Clear Selection to clear any multiple-choice or true or false questions that you are unsure about.
Retake a quiz
You can retake a quiz at any time by following the steps described on this page. However, the ability to access a quiz depends on how your instructor has set up the quiz. Your instructor may have applied conditions to the quiz that disables your ability to take the quiz again.
You may not be able to access and retake the quiz if:
The quiz  has passed an allowable time limit.
The quiz has passed a due date, or has an availability date range that has passed.
You have exceeded the limit on the number of allowable quiz attempts.
If you want to retake a quiz that is no longer available, you must contact your instructor to have them make the quiz available to you again.
Video: How to take a quiz




--------------------------------------------------


Troubleshooting issues with Quizzes

Where can I find my quiz?
There are different areas within Brightspace where your quizzes can be found:
Content: Your instructor may have added course quizzes to Content where all other course materials can be found.

Figure: Click the quiz in your course module and then click Go to Quiz.
Quizzes: If the Quizzes tool is visible on your course navbar, quizzes will be listed in the Quiz List.

Figure: Select a quiz from the Quiz List.
Other areas where your quizzes might be found include the Announcements tool, the Work To Do widget, and the Calendar widget.
Unable to access a quiz / Missing quizzes
There are several reasons why you may not be able to find or access a quiz:
The quiz you are looking for is hidden. Contact your instructor to verify they made the quiz visible.
The quiz you are looking for has release conditions that have not been met.Instructors can set release conditions for quizzes to appear only after certain criteria are met. For example, a learner must view "Content Topic A" before they are able to view "Quiz A".Check your course syllabus as information could be included concerning any release conditions that are attached to quizzes. Contact your instructor for further information on whether there is a release condition attached to the quiz that is missing.
The quiz you are looking for has special access settings set by your instructor.Contact your instructor if you believe that you should have access to a quiz outside of the dates set for the rest of the class.
Unable to start a quiz attempt
There are several reasons why you may not be able to start a quiz attempt, even if the quiz is visible:
The quiz you are trying to complete has an attempt in progress.If you started a quiz and did not submit it before leaving the page, there is a chance that the timer will run out, leaving you with the inability to continue your attempt. If this happens, contact your instructor for assistance.
Unable to click Start Quiz or the Start Quiz button is grayed out.Your instructor may enable settings that allow you a certain amount of quiz attempts. The number of times you can attempt a quiz is indicated on both the quiz summary page and on the Quiz List page. If you have already completed all quiz attempts and try to access it again, the Start Quiz button will not show. Contact your instructor if you believe that you should be granted additional attempts.

Figure: The Attempts section shows you how many Allowed attempts you have and how many attempts are Completed. The Start Quiz button does not appear if you have already completed the allowed number of attempts.
Your instructor may have set up your quiz to be available on a specific date and time. The quiz availability is listed above the Start Quiz button on the Quiz Details page. If the availability is set to a future date and time, the Start Quiz button will be grayed out. Contact your instructor if you believe that the quiz availability settings are incorrect.

Figure: Check the Availability section to see when your quiz is available.
The quiz you are trying to complete has a password.Your instructor may set a password to access your quiz. If you do not know your password or the password provided is not working, contact your instructor.




--------------------------------------------------


Using the Surveys tool

Submit course feedback with the Surveys tool
Surveys are like quizzes where you will be given a group of questions to answer.  However, the purpose of a survey is not for evaluation, but instead is used to gather your feedback and insights on things like your course materials or your instructor’s teaching methods.
To access and complete a survey

On your course homepage, navigate to the survey you want to take. This could be located in places like your Calendar or in Content.


Click the survey you want to take.


Figure: Click the survey you want to take in the Surveys tool.

Enter your responses for the survey.

Note: You may only be able to complete the survey once. You may also only be able to complete the survey once but may have permission to edit your responses until the survey’s end date.

Click Save Responses to save your survey responses and finish the rest later. When you are done, click Submit Survey.


Figure: Click either Save Responses or Submit Survey.

The survey Confirmation dialog appears with the prompt Are you sure that you want to submit the survey? Click Yes.


Figure: The Confirmation dialog for surveys. Click Yes to submit the survey.
Anonymous participation in a survey
If a survey is anonymous, your user data is hidden in survey results. The responses to survey questions are available for all users, but the system does not report who made which response.
Note: You cannot associate anonymous survey activities with learning objectives.
Sharing survey's results
Your instructor can share survey's results with you. 
To review survey's results
Navigate to Surveys.
Click the context menu beside the specific survey and select Reports.Figure: Select Reports in the context menu.
Click the name of the report from  Report List and click on it.
Select a time period if needed and click Generate HTML to view the outcome.Figure: Click Generate HTML.
Can I create a survey?
No, the Survey tool is designed to be an assessment tool in courses and provide a way for instructors to solicit feedback from participants regarding any aspect of a course. 



--------------------------------------------------


Using Rubrics

Overview of the Rubrics tool
Use rubrics as a guideline to complete course activities like Assignments and Discussions. Rubrics provide you with clear expectations on how you should complete course activities, how you will be assessed on specific activities, and provide you with next steps for future learning improvement.
Visual Tour: Rubrics

Figure: A rubric is organized into various sections, which are described below.

Criteria: The specific standards that your instructor will be marking your work on.


Levels: The different levels of performance that your instructor outlined for each of the criteria chosen.


Criterion Score: The score of a criterion that your instructor gave you based on the work they are assessing.


Total: The sum of your work based on the accumulation of criteria scores.


Overall Score: The overall score that your work falls under based on points.

How rubrics relate to your grade
Rubrics are used to assess your achievement on course activities (assignments and discussions), based on predefined achievement levels and assessment criteria. They help ensure that activities are evaluated fairly and consistently, and can enable you to view the grading criteria before submitting activities. 

Figure: You can see your grade for each section of a Graded rubric highlighted in blue, as well as feedback for your assignment
Rubrics are associated directly with course activities, so you may have the option to view the criteria used to assess your activity before you submit your work. However, in some cases, your instructor may choose to hide a rubric for an activity until it is graded and feedback is published. This may be done to prevent learners from using rubrics as answer keys for activities. For example, your instructor may describe assessment expectations in assignment instructions, hiding the associated preview rubric. Once the assignment is graded, your instructor releases the graded rubric as part of your assessment details.
Note: Previous evaluations are not affected if your instructor changes the status of the rubric to archived.
The graded rubric for the activity includes achieved criteria, personalized feedback, and score. In some cases, the activity includes a link to the graded rubric. For example, a discussion shows instructor feedback, score, and a link to the graded rubric.
When you are notified that your grade for an activity is released or updated, you can view the feedback from the respective tool. For example, to view assignment feedback, navigate to Assignments. 
Note: Depending on how Brightspace is configured in your organization, you may also navigate to Grades, User Progress, and Content to view completed rubric feedback for activities. In User Progress, you can only see the names of the rubrics if there are multiple rubrics attached to an activity.



--------------------------------------------------


Search for courses and self-enroll using Discover

To provide you with greater flexibility and control over your personal learning goals, the Discover tool allows you to search for active courses in your organization and self-enroll in them. You can also self-unenroll from the courses you self-enrolled in.
When you initially launch Discover from the navbar, the Discover homepage displays. To easily browse courses by category, the Discover homepage organizes unenrolled courses into sections:
The New section includes courses added to Discover within the last 6 months. By default, the four most recently added courses display. To display all courses added to Discover within the last six months, click View All. 
The Updated section includes courses updated within the last six months. This includes courses with updated course titles or descriptions only; courses with updated course content do not display in this section. By default, the four most recently updated courses display. To display all courses updated within the last six months, click View All.
The Featured section includes courses promoted by your organization, typically popular courses or courses your organization wants to promote, up to a maximum of four courses. 

Figure: Courses organized by sections on the Discover homepage

After you enroll in a course, the course is removed from  the Discover homepage. To view the enrolled course in Discover, click Browse All Content on the Discover homepage, and then sort by Already Enrolled. All your enrolled courses display in the search results.

Figure: Search results  in Discover sorted by Already Enrolled.
Note the following:
Only courses that allow self-enrollment (configured by course administrators or instructors) appear in the search results.
You can enroll in a course prior to its Start Date (if configured), but you cannot enroll in a course past its End Date (if configured).
Discover uses fuzzy search to match the course title and description. For example, typing "chemistry" may return search results for "biochemistry" and "chemistry".
From Discover, you can open an enrolled course in Brightspace. In Discover, navigate to the enrolled course, and from the course details page, click Open Course.
				Depending on how Discover is configured in your organization, courses may be organized by one or more of the following sections on the Discover homepage: New, Updated, All, or Featured.
Self-enroll in a course 
You can browse or search for courses available to you using Discover and self-enroll in a course.
To self-enroll in a course
From the navbar, click Discover. 
From the Discover homepage, do one of the following:Browse for the course by sections.In the search bar, enter terms that match the course title and description. If you don't find what you're looking for, try using a different search term. You can also click either Browse All Content or View All to view all courses.Tip: You can filter the search results by selecting a filter drop-down menu and selecting which options you wish to include in your search. Filters include Semester and an org unit type (for example: Department). Multiple options can be selected. In addition, you can sort the results by selecting a sort option from the drop-down menu. Note: Org unit type filters are enabled by your institution. Contact your administrator if these filters are unavailable.Figure: Click the filter type and select which option or options you wish to search for. Options not selected do not appear in the search results.
Select the course you want to enroll in.
From the course details page, click Enroll in Course.
Self-unenroll from a course
You can self-unenroll in any course you are already enrolled in.
To self-unenroll from a course
From the navbar, click Discover.
From the Discover homepage, do one of the following:Click Browse All Content, and then sort by Already Enrolled. All your enrolled courses display in the search results.In the search bar, enter terms that match the course title and description.
Select the course you want to unenroll from.
From the (...) Options menu on the course details page, click Unenroll.Note: The Unenroll option appears only if you assigned yourself to the course.
Request approval for self-enrollment in a course
In some cases, you may need to request approval from your instructor before self-enrolling in a course.
To request approval for self-enrollment
From the navbar, click Discover.
From the Discover homepage, click a course name to preview the course. 
If the course requires approval before self-enrolling, click Request Approval. You are taken to a Request Details page and your request is set to Pending.Figure: The Request Approval button for a course.Figure: The Request Details page.
If you want to withdraw your request, click Withdraw Request.
Once your instructor approves or declines your request, you will receive a notification in Brightspace.

Figure: A notification of approval or decline of self-enrollment.
Manage your self-enrollment requests
You can review all your self-enrollment requests from the My Requests page.
Important: Instructors can delete your enrollment requests without notifying you. If your enrollment request disappears from the My Requests page, contact your instructor or administrator to check the status of your enrollment request. You can self-enroll in the course again if it is still visible in Discover. If your instructor deletes an Approved enrollment request, you are still enrolled in the course.
To access the My Requests page
From the navbar, click Discover.
From the Discover homepage, click My Requests.Figure: Use the My Requests page to review all enrollment requests you have created and the status of each.Note: You can also Search requests and click the arrow next to Submission Date and Status to search for and filter results.
To review a request, click on the course name and do one of the following:If your enrollment request is Approved, you can click Open Course or click View Request to review the details of your request.If your enrollment request is Declined, you can click View Request to review any comments your approver may have left explaining why your request was declined.




--------------------------------------------------


Access the LOR

The Learning Object Repository (LOR) is a great place to access course materials that support your learning. Your instructor can add resources like documents, videos, podcasts, and more that enhance your Brightspace experience.
Access and search the LOR
On your course homepage, navigate to the LOR. This is located in the navbar or by clicking More > LOR from the navbar.
There are multiple ways to search the LOR. You can perform a search by navigating through either of the following:In the Search For field, enter the name or keyword for the resource you want to find. Click Search to be shown resources linked to your search. You can also click Advanced Search to filter and add details to your search.In the Explore a Repository section, click the name of any repository to be taken to the Results page. 
In the Search Filters panel, choose any of the filters to customize your search. You can also find resources by entering or clicking Keywords. Object keywords can be found by clicking the Show Details drop-down for any learning object.
Video: Access the LOR



--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Portfolio overview

Brightspace Portfolio is a tool that empowers learners of all ages to independently capture evidence of learning. Learners can maintain their digital portfolio year after year, as they progress through their learning journey.
With Brightspace Portfolio, you can:
Create learner-centered digital portfolios
Use age-appropriate modes of the mobile app to collect evidence of learning
Document process and growth
Provide formative assessments and real-time feedback
Record audio and video reflections about a learner's work
Use Brightspace Portfolio year-over-year to reflect a learner's growth and showcase their work
Ensure learner data is secure and private
Share evidence of learning with parents and guardians b y using Brightspace Parent & Guardian
Note: D2L recommends that you do not use Brightspace Portfolio and Brightspace ePortfolio in the same Course Offering concurrently. 
Supported evidence types in Brightspace Portfolio
You can upload or view any evidence that is a PDF or can be converted to a PDF  in the Brightspace Portfolio web application.  The supported file types include:
Video: SWF, MPG, MPEG, RM, MP3, MP4, M4V, M4A, AVI, WAV, RAM, ASF, MOV, RANote: There is no limit to the size of videos; however, they are naturally limited by the device's capacity and bandwidth.
Images: JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIF, TIFF
Text documents: RTF, PPT, PPS, PDF, DOC, DOCX, PPTX, XML, XLS, TXT, WPD, XLSX, XLS
                Web documents: HTM, HTML, MHT, MHTML
External links to Google Drive
External links to Office 365
When downloading image evidence for viewing, the evidence is downloaded in the original file type and resolution. For example, if a learner uploads a full resolution JPEG file, the image size and resolution may adjust in the Portfolio viewer; however, an instructor downloading the image downloads a full resolution JPEG file.



--------------------------------------------------


Set up the Brightspace Portfolio app

You can set up Brightspace Portfolio on a personal device or a shared family device. Your instructor may set up Brightspace Portfolio on a shared classroom device.
Depending on the device you choose, Brightspace Portfolio offers several modes for different types of learners:
In-Class Mode and At Home provides a workflow suited to more advanced learners, with opportunity to include reflections using audio or text.Figure: In-Class Mode in the Brightspace Portfolio app
In-Class With Funster and At Home With Funster provides a workflow with a fun creature to help guide early learners through the process. In Funster mode, instructors can decide whether they want learners to record reflections on their work.Figure: Funster mode in the Brightspace Portfolio app
Set up Brightspace Portfolio on a personal device
On your device, download Brightspace Portfolio from any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®.
Tap the Brightspace Portfolio icon.
Tap My Device.
Do one of the following:
Enter your Brightspace URL, and then tap Connect.Tap Scan Code and use the Brightspace Portfolio app to scan the QR code provided by your instructor.
Enter your Brightspace credentials, and then tap Log In.
To start collecting evidence, see Collect evidence.
Set up Brightspace Portfolio on a shared family device
On your family device, download Brightspace Portfolio from any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®.
Tap the Brightspace Portfolio icon.
Tap Family Device.
Tap one of the following:
At HomeAt Home with Funster. This mode provides friendly guidance for young learners.
To start collecting evidence, see Collect evidence.
Watch how to set up Brightspace Portfolio on your device

Use the Brightspace Portfolio app at home
Brightspace Portfolio Home mode  supports young learners, their parents, and their teachers while they are learning from home.
The Funster mode was originally designed to be very easy to use for a young learner, while requiring minimal assistance from a teacher in a classroom setting. It assumes a teacher controls a shared classroom device, such as an tablet and scans the classroom card before students can use the device to capture photos and reflections. It’s a great tool for a classroom and this functionality continues to exist.
Now that kids are all learning at home, the dynamic has changed. There might be multiple kids in a family, all in different grades with different teachers, and it would be onerous for a teacher to individually send the class card and student cards to all parents. 
Inform your learners and parents about Brightspace Portfolio Home mode by directing them to the Brightspace Portfolio At Home blog post, enabling them to self-serve their learner passcards containing their individual QR Codes and access Home mode. Optionally, Home mode for Teachers now enables you to download your class QR Codes individually for distribution.
Note: QR Codes contain private information and should be treated as such.
As learners collect evidence with Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode, the evidence appears on the Approve Evidence page for your class in Brightspace.
Print a learner passcard for Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode
Ensure that your device (such as an iPad, iPhone, or Android device) has the latest version of Brightspace Portfolio.To either download Brightspace Portfolio for the first time or to update it, in the App Store (for iOS) and Google Play Store (for Android), search for Brightspace Portfolio and click Install or Update.
On a computer, as a learner, log in to Brightspace.
From your personal menu, click My Portfolio.
Click Print Class Passcards. 
Use the download link () to download your personal passcard. You can either print the passcard or save it locally on your device for future use.
Note: Your student will need to use these passcards every time they log evidence. If you are printing the QR code, print it in high quality and at 100% scale.
Using Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode for Students and Parents
On your iOS or Android device, launch the Brightspace Portfolio app.
Select Family Device. 
Then choose At Home or At Home with Funster; if selected, the Funster will provide friendly guidance for the learner. 
Scan your personal passcard, and begin capturing evidence of your learning.




--------------------------------------------------


Collect evidence

Collect and upload photo and video evidence for a course
Use Brightspace Portfolio to collect photo and video evidence of your learning in the classroom, at home, or on excursions. How you collect evidence with Brightspace Portfolio depends on the device you are using (class, personal, or family device) and the mode (Class Device, Family Mode, My Device).
After collecting evidence, you upload it to your class portfolio using the Brightspace Portfolio app or the Portfolio tool in Brightspace. 
Important: Depending on how your course is configured, your instructor may need to approve any evidence you submit before it appears in your portfolio. Hence, there may be a delay between when you upload the evidence and when it appears in your portfolio.
View recent evidence
To provide an intuitive workflow for uploading and approving evidence, the Brightspace Portfolio app in At Home and My Device mode includes a Recent Evidence list. From this list, you can view captured evidence that is uploading, awaiting approval by your instructor, and approved (added to your portfolio).
From the capture screen in the Brightspace Portfolio app, a Recent Evidence icon displays. Tapping the icon displays the Recent Evidence list. Each item includes the title of the evidence, the date it was uploaded, and the status of the upload. Tapping Back takes you back to the capture screen.
Notes:
The Recent Evidence list displays evidence submitted within the last 30 days by the current user on the current device.
After you upload evidence, the status is refreshed after 10 minutes.
                If Brightspace Portfolio cannot retrieve the status of evidence (the evidence was deleted, no internet connection), the status displays as "Not Available."
Collect evidence on a class device using in-class mode
After your instructor scans the class card with the class device, tap Start Collecting For Your Portfolio.
Scan your QR code on the class card. 
Using the camera or video function in Brightspace Portfolio, collect photo or video evidence.
Do any of the following:
In the Title your work field, provide a title for the evidence.In the Say something about it field, tap Start Recording to provide an audio reflection of the evidence. When finished, tap Stop Recording. To play the recording, tap the Play icon. To record again, tap Replace Recording.In the Write down some thoughts field, provide a text reflection of the evidence.
To add the evidence to your portfolio, tap Done.
Collect evidence on a class device using in-class mode with Funster
After your instructor scans the class card with the class device, wake up Funster and start collecting evidence by tapping Wake Time!
Tap Let's go!
Scan your QR code on the class card. 
To collect photo evidence, tap Picture Time! Hold the camera still on an object while the timer counts down.
If you like the photo, tap Yes. To discard the photo and take a new one, tap No.
To provide an audio reflection about the evidence, tap Talk Time! To finish recording and upload your evidence to your portfolio, tap All Done!
Collect evidence on a personal device
Using the camera or video function in Brightspace Portfolio, collect photo or video evidence.
Tap the thumbnail of the image or video.
From the Collected Evidence page, tap the new evidence tile to provide details. Optionally, you can tap the ellipses (...) icon in the evidence tile to upload, edit, or delete the evidence.
From the Evidence Details page, do any of the following:
In the Add a title... field, provide a title for the evidence.Tap the Microphone icon to provide an audio reflection of the evidence. Tap the icon again to play the recording. Long-press to record again.In the Write down some thoughts... field, provide a text reflection of the evidence.Pick categories to help you easily find this evidence later. For more information, see Assign categories to tag evidence.
To upload the evidence, tap the Upload icon.
Tap a class folder to upload the evidence to.
After the evidence is uploaded to the class folder, you are returned to the Collected Evidence page. Optionally, you can do one of the following:
To collect more evidence to add to your portfolio, tap the camera icon.Tip: To view the status of uploaded evidence, from the capture screen, tap the Recent Evidence icon. To view collected evidence in your portfolio, tap My Portfolio.
To collect evidence on a shared family device using at home mode
After you scan the QR code on your learner passcard, use the camera or video function in Brightspace Portfolio to collect photo or video evidence.
Do any of the following:
In the Title your work field, provide a title for the evidence.In the Say something about it field, tap Start Recording to provide an audio reflection of the evidence. Tap the Play icon to play the recording. To record again, tap Replace Recording.In the Write down some thoughts field, provide a text reflection of the evidence.
To add the evidence to your portfolio, tap Done.
Do one of the following:
To collect more evidence, scan your QR code again.Tip: To view the status of uploaded evidence, from the capture screen, tap the Recent Evidence icon.To finish collecting evidence, tap the X icon.
To collect evidence on a shared family device using at home mode with Funster
To wake up Funster and start collecting evidence, tap Wake Time!
Tap Let's go!
Scan your QR code on the class card. 
To collect photo evidence, tap Picture Time! Hold the camera still on an object while the timer counts down.
If you like the photo, tap Yes. To discard the photo and take a new one, tap No.
To provide an audio reflection about the evidence, tap Talk Time! To finish recording, tap All Done!
Funster uploads the evidence to your portfolio.
Upload evidence from the Portfolio tool within Brightspace
Tip: If you collected evidence on a device without the Brightspace Portfolio app or have evidence on a computer, you can log in to Brightspace on the device or computer, access your portfolio, and then upload the evidence.
From a browser, log in to Brightspace.
Click your user profile on the navbar, and then click My Portfolio.Tip: Depending on how Brightspace is configured, a Portfolio link may also display on the navbar.
With the View By: Courses toggle enabled, click your course portfolio tile.
Click Add to Portfolio.
Do one of the following:Upload a file on your device or computer by dragging and dropping or browsing.Save a link to a file from your Google Drive or Office 365 account.
Collect and upload evidence not linked to a course
While most learners capture evidence of learning for the courses they are enrolled in, some learning may occur outside of courses. In this case, those learners still need to collect evidence of learning in an independent location where assessment by an instructor is unnecessary. For example, program learning in higher education, extracurricular activities, internships, or independent learning/research. For these learning environments, your administrator can enable a workflow that allows you to collect evidence and choose whether to link it to a course or not. Evidence that is not linked to a course is known as unlinked evidence.
Note the following:
Evidence not linked to a course is hidden to instructors. This means that evidence cannot be assessed by instructors unless you link the evidence to a course.
If Instructor sharing is enabled, you must first link the evidence to a course and then share it with the instructor.  Instructor sharing is not automatic when evidence is linked to a course and instructor sharing is enabled.
If you remove or change a linked course, all class categories are removed from the linked evidence.
If a piece of evidence is shared with an instructor and it contains feedback, rubrics, or outcomes, you cannot remove or change the linked course.
If you do not have unlinked evidence, the image preview for the Unlinked Evidence tile defaults to the org-defined theme color. Once you upload unlinked evidence, the most recent piece of evidence is selected as the preview image for the tile.
Collect evidence not linked to a course with the Brightspace Portfolio app
Using the camera or video function in Brightspace Portfolio, collect photo or video evidence.
Tap the thumbnail of the image or video.
From the Collected Evidence page, tap the new evidence tile to provide details. Optionally, you can tap the ellipses (...) icon in the evidence tile to upload, edit, or delete the evidence.
From the Evidence Details page, do any of the following:
In the Add a title... field, provide a title for the evidence.Tap the Microphone icon to provide an audio reflection of the evidence. Tap the icon again to play the recording. Long-press to record again.In the Write down some thoughts... field, provide a text reflection of the evidence.Pick categories to help you easily find this evidence later. For more information, see Assign categories to tag evidence.
To upload the evidence, tap the Upload icon.
Tap the Unlinked Evidence folder to upload the evidence to.
After the evidence is uploaded to the Unlinked Evidence folder, you are returned to the Collected Evidence page. Optionally, you can do one of the following:
To collect more evidence to add to your portfolio, tap the camera icon.Tip: To view the status of uploaded evidence, from the capture screen, tap the Recent Evidence icon. To view collected evidence in your portfolio, tap My Portfolio.
Collect evidence not linked to a course with the Portfolio web application
From a browser, log in to Brightspace.
Click your user profile on the navbar, and then click My Portfolio.Tip: Depending on how Brightspace is configured, a Portfolio link may also display on the navbar.
With the View By: Evidence or View By: Courses toggle enabled, click Add to Portfolio.
Do one of the following:Upload a file on your device or computer by dragging and dropping or browsing.Save a link to a file from your Google Drive or Office 365 account.
You are redirected to the Evidence page, which displays an option that allows you to choose whether to link the evidence to a course or not. With this workflow, uploaded evidence is unlinked by default, indicated by the Not Linked label. To link the evidence to a course, click the pencil icon beside Not Linked, select an active course they are enrolled in, and click Link.
Add details to the piece of evidence.
Navigate back to the Portfolio landing page.
Assign categories to tag evidence
As you collect more evidence with the Brightspace Portfolio app, categories can help you easily find a specific piece of evidence. From the Portfolio tool in Brightspace, you can assign categories to tag the evidence you collect. This allows you to choose how you organize evidence for viewing. You can also view categories added by the instructor, and filter evidence by categories from your Portfolio page.
Note: Learners cannot delete categories added by the instructor or add custom categories.
Using the Brightspace Portfolio app on your device, collect evidence.
From a browser, log in to Brightspace.
Click your user profile on the navbar, and then click My Portfolio.
Click your course portfolio tile.
Click the evidence tile you want to assign categories to.
Under Categorize your work, click Add Category.
In the School Categories or Class Categories tabs, click categories that apply to the evidence, for example, science and science fair.
Navigate back to your Portfolio page.
To filter evidence on the page by categories, tap Filter.
In the School Categories or Class Categories tabs, click categories to filter evidence by.




--------------------------------------------------


View and organize evidence

Access your course portfolios from the Portfolio tool
From the Portfolio tool in Brightspace, you can access all of your current portfolios from active courses that you are enrolled in, view archived portfolios from inactive courses, and manage your collected evidence. 
Tip: Depending on how Brightspace is configured, a Portfolio link may also display on the navbar.
Access your course portfolios
In Brightspace, click your user profile on the navbar.
Click My Portfolio. The Portfolio landing page displays.Note: By default, your portfolio displays Active Evidence in active courses. From the list, you can also choose to display Archived Portfolios from inactive courses.
Choose a view:
View By: Courses - displays all courses you are enrolled in.View By: Evidence - displays all collected evidence from your active courses.
Choose a format:
Tiles - displays information in a tile format.List - displays information in a list format.
When viewing by Courses, the following information displays:
Evidence CollectedSpotlighted Evidence
When viewing by Evidence, the following information displays: 
Shared With Parents/Guardians (if Brightspace Parent & Guardian is enabled)Feedback ProvidedCategorizedSpotlighted Evidence
To view more information about a course portfolio or a piece of evidence, click the tile or list item.

Figure: The Portfolio landing page, displaying all courses in tile format

Figure: The Portfolio landing page, displaying all evidence in list format

Figure: Viewing evidence in a course portfolio
Filter all evidence in your course portfolios
To allow you to more easily find specific types of evidence for viewing, Brightspace Portfolio includes filtering options when you view by evidence. For example, you can filter evidence containing instructor feedback.
Click your user profile on the navbar.
Click My Portfolio.Tip: Depending on how Brightspace is configured, a Porfolio link may also display on the navbar.
Click View By: Evidence.
				Click Filter, and then select one or more Evidence filters. 			For example, Filter > Evidence >  With Feedback.
To remove an active filter, click X on the filter next to Applied Filters or click Filter and select the active filter.
View evidence not linked to a course
If you have evidence not linked to a course, you can view and manage it from the Portfolio tool in Brightspace. Evidence that is not linked to a course might be program learning, extracurricular activities, internships, or independent learning or research. 
Notes: 

Your administrator enables the workflow that allows you to choose whether you can link evidence to a course or not.


Evidence not linked to a course is hidden to instructors. This means that evidence cannot be assessed by instructors unless learners link the evidence to a course.

In Brightspace, click your user profile on the navbar.
Click My Portfolio. The Portfolio landing page displays.
Do one of the following:
Click View By: Courses. An Unlinked Evidence tile displays, along with active course tiles.Click the Unlinked Evidence tile. All unlinked evidence displays on the View By: Evidence page. Click View By: Evidence. All active linked and unlinked evidence displays.From this page, you can filter the evidence by clicking Filter and choosing Linked to Course or Not Linked to Course.
View evidence in archived portfolios
In the Portfolio tool, you can view evidence in your archived portfolios, which are automatically removed from course portfolios and archived when the related courses become inactive. You can use your archived portfolios to demonstrate growth, reflect on past learning, and showcase your best work.
Note the following:
When viewing an archived portfolio, breadcrumb links display at the top of the page, allowing you to navigate back to previous pages.
When viewing archived portfolios by years or courses, filtering is disabled.
The Previous and Next arrow buttons skip archived evidence and navigate to the nearest active evidence.
View archived portfolios
In Brightspace, click your user profile on the navbar.
Click My Portfolio.Tip: Depending on how Brightspace is configured, a Portfolio link may also display on the navbar.
                By default, your portfolio displays Active Evidence in active courses. From the list, select Archived Portfolios.
Click a year tile, and then a portfolio tile.            




--------------------------------------------------


Share evidence and review feedback

To allow you to share evidence with instructors, an administrator must turn on this workflow.
Once instructor sharing is turned on by an administrator, you can only share evidence with instructors from the Portfolio tool in Brightspace.
If you are currently using Brightspace Portfolio and your administrator turns on instructor sharing for the first time, any existing evidence that was previously visible to instructors continues to be visible. However, any new evidence will not be visible to instructors until you share it.
Evidence containing feedback, rubrics, or outcomes cannot be unshared with instructors.
Archived evidence can be shared and then unshared with instructors, even if it contains feedback, rubrics, or outcomes.
Learners can also share evidence with instructors by clicking the (...) Options menu on an evidence tile and selecting Share with Instructors.
When you share evidence with an instructor, the date and time the evidence is shared is added to the evidence, visible to you and the instructor. However, the date and time that the evidence was collected is only visible to you.
Share evidence with instructors
In Brightspace, click your user profile on the navbar.
Click My Portfolio.
Click a course tile.
Select an evidence tile to view the evidence details.
From the Instructor Sharing toggle, click the toggle from Not Shared to Shared. This authorizes the instructor to view the evidence, provide feedback or attach rubrics/outcomes to the evidence.
Navigate back to the course page in your portfolio. The evidence tile displays a new Shared with Instructor icon that indicates the evidence is now shared with instructors.
Share evidence with instructors in a course
On the navbar, click your username and select  My Portfolio.Figure: The location of the My Portfolio option in the dropdown menu.
Click a course tile.Figure: The Portfolio tool main page, with the course tile selected.
Click the Options (...) menu on an evidence tile and select Share with Instructors. Figure: The evidence tile Options dropdown menu. The Share with Instructors option is highlighted.            
The evidence tile displays the Shared with Instructors icon that indicates the evidence is now shared with instructors.
Notes:
This workflow must be turned on by an administrator before you can share evidence with instructors.
You can only share evidence with instructors from the Portfolio tool.
If you are using the Portfolio tool and instructor sharing is enabled for the first time, any existing evidence previously available to instructors continues to be visible. However, new evidence will not be available to instructors until you share it.
Evidence containing feedback, rubrics, or outcomes cannot be unshared with instructors.
Archived evidence can be shared or unshared with instructors, even if it contains feedback, rubrics, or outcomes.
When you share evidence with an instructor, the date and time the evidence is shared is added to the evidence. This is visible to you and the instructor. However, the date and time the evidence was collected are only visible to you.
Review rubric feedback on evidence
From the Portfolio tool in Brightspace, rubric feedback is available on evidence in real time, since the instructor feedback is auto-saved. 
From a browser, log in to Brightspace.
Click your user profile on the navbar, and then click My Portfolio.
Click your course portfolio tile.
Click the evidence tile you want to review rubric feedback for.
Click the rubric against which you have been evaluated.
Review the rubric evaluation.




--------------------------------------------------


Manage your course workload with Brightspace Pulse

Brightspace Pulse is a mobile app that can help learners stay connected and on track with their courses in Brightspace. It provides one easy view of course calendars, readings, assignments, evaluations, grades, and announcements. The app can help learners make better decisions about how to handle workload, when to submit assignments, and when to prepare for tests. Real-time alerts can let learners know when classes are canceled, rooms are moved, or new/updated course content and grades are made available. The schedule view and weekly visualization provides learners with a quick, at-a-glance view of what is due today, this week, and later in the term across all their courses.
Video: Brightspace Pulse overview





--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Pulse platform requirements

Brightspace Pulse is available for download from any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®. The app is generally released at the beginning of the month, and then sometimes mid-month, if issues are found. Depending on how your device is configured, the app may update automatically or you may have to manually check for new versions.
Brightspace platform support
Brightspace Pulse is compatible with Brightspace platform 10.5.1 and higher. By default, Brightspace Pulse is turned on for use in your organization.
Region and language support
Brightspace Pulse is supported in the following geographic regions:
U.S.
Canada
Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA) 
Asia Pacific (Singapore and Australia)
Brightspace Pulse  is available for use in the following languages:
Arabic (Saudi Arabia)
Chinese	(Simplified)
Chinese	(Traditional)
Danish
Dutch
English (U.S.)
French (Canada)
French	(France)
German (Germany)
Japanese
Korean
Portuguese (Brazil)
Spanish	(Latin America)
Swedish
Turkish	
Note: The Brightspace Pulse app reflects the language preference selected on the user's device, not what is set in Brightspace. This includes right-to-left language support.
Operating system support
Brightspace Pulse is optimized for mobile devices with the following operating systems:
Note: For an optimal experience, D2L recommends using Brightspace Pulse on a mobile device with the latest version of a supported operating system.
AndroidTM 6.0 (2015 release) or later on tablets or phones
iOS® 13.0 or later on iPhone®, iPad®, and iPod® touch
Accessibility support
Brightspace Pulse is accessible using VoiceOver (iOS) and TalkBack (Android).



--------------------------------------------------


Log in and out of Brightspace Pulse

When you initially log in to Brightspace Pulse, you can quickly find your organization by turning on your device's geolocation service. Brightspace Pulse searches for all organizations within a 55km / 34-mile radius from your current location; however, the list may not include all institutions that use the Brightspace platform. Alternatively, you can search for your organization by name. If there are no search results, type the URL for your organization's Learning Management System (LMS).
After logging in, Brightspace Pulse loads your course data by retrieving calendar events from Calendar. These events might include dates from Content, Checklist, Discussions, Assignments, and Quizzes in Brightspace, if instructors set due dates in these tools.
Log in to Brightspace Pulse
From your device, tap the Brightspace Pulse icon.
Learn more about Brightspace Pulse by swiping left/right or proceed to the next step by tapping Next.
Tap Pick Your School.
Enter your Brightspace credentials and then tap Log In.
Log out of Brightspace Pulse 
From the navigation bar, tap the Menu icon.
Tap Settings.
Tap Sign Out of All Accounts.




--------------------------------------------------


Navigate in Brightspace Pulse

Brightspace Pulse features an intuitive interface for iOS and Android devices. 
Tip: When Dark mode is enabled on your iOS or Android device, Brightspace Pulse displays in Dark mode. Using this mode can reduce eye strain and conserve battery power on your device.
Brightspace Pulse interface overview for iOS

The Upcoming tab displays upcoming work (activities) for your courses. You can filter the list of activities by tapping the Work To Do, Events, or All sub-tabs.                         From the Upcoming tab, the graph displays upcoming activities at-a-glance, indicating which days are the busiest.
Navigate weeks by swiping left/right. As you navigate, the activity list updates.
Tapping a day updates the activity list for that day.
Streamline your view by tilting your device to landscape view, hiding the activity list.
The Courses tab displays the courses you are currently enrolled in, and a button to access the org homepage in Brightspace. By default, this tab displays when you log in to Brightspace Pulse.
The Notifications tab displays notifications about course-related news, updates, and grades from Announcements, Activity Feed, Grades, and Content in Brightspace.
The Work To Do tab shows you your assigned learning activities from all courses that have a due date or end date.
The Events tab displays course events.
The All tab is a combined list of everything in the Work To Do and Events tabs.
Brightspace Pulse interface overview for Android

The Upcoming tab displays upcoming work (activities) for your courses. You can filter the list of activities by tapping the Work To Do, Events, or All sub-tabs.                         From the Upcoming tab, the graph displays upcoming activities at-a-glance, indicating which days are the busiest.
Navigate weeks by swiping left/right. As you navigate, the activity list updates.
Tapping a day updates the activity list for that day.
Streamline your view by tilting your device to landscape view, hiding the activity list.
The Courses tab displays the courses you are currently enrolled in, and a button to access the org homepage in Brightspace. By default, this tab displays when you log in to Brightspace Pulse.
The Notifications tab displays notifications about course-related news, updates, and grades from Announcements, Activity Feed, Grades, and Content in Brightspace.
The Work To Do tab shows you your assigned learning activities from all courses that have a due date or end date.
The Events tab displays course events.
The All tab is a combined list of everything in the Work To Do and Events tabs.
Video: Navigate Brightspace Pulse




--------------------------------------------------


View upcoming work in Brightspace Pulse

In Brightspace Pulse, the Upcoming tab displays upcoming work (activities) for your courses. The graph displays upcoming activities at-a-glance, indicating which days are the busiest. 
You can filter the list of activities by tapping the Work To Do, Events, or All sub-tabs.
Navigate weeks by swiping left/right or using Apple VoiceOver. As you navigate, the activity list updates, displaying a summary of activities due for the day. Tapping a day in the graph also updates the activity list.
The activity list displays a summary of your activities, for example, readings, assignments, and evaluations.
Navigate activities by swiping up or down.
Swiping left or right moves to the next or previous week. As you navigate, the graph updates.
Tapping an activity displays detailed information and actions you can perform.
When an activity is complete, a Check Mark icon automatically displays.
Start dates, end dates, and due dates for activities
To help you stay on track, Brightspace Pulse uses start dates, end dates, and due dates for activities, ensuring that the activities appear in the Upcoming tab. However, for some activities, due dates do not apply. Specifically, for discussion topics and surveys added from the Content tool, these activities must have a start date and end date. If these activities only have a due date and are added from the Content tool, they do not appear in the Upcoming tab.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage multiple Brightspace Pulse accounts

Brightspace Pulse for iOS and Android supports the ability to simultaneously log in to multiple Brightspace Pulse accounts. You can easily switch between multiple Brightspace instances without logging out from Brightspace Pulse. In addition, you can receive notifications from all of their accounts in Brightspace Pulse.
This feature is useful if you are:
completing more than one degree
supplementing a degree with a preferred course offering at a partner institution
simultaneously pursuing a degree and professional development at work
In Brightspace Pulse, a Menu icon or your organization's logo displays in the navigation bar. Tap the Menu icon or logo to open a menu with options to switch accounts, add new accounts, and access settings. The current active account is indicated by a Checkmark icon.
If there is at least one outstanding notification for any of the accounts, a  red notification dot displays on the Menu icon or organization logo in the navigation bar.

Figure: Brightspace Pulse displaying an organization's logo in the navigation bar, with a notification indicator
 
Figure: Menu options that display when you tap the menu icon or organization logo in the navigation bar
Add another Brightspace Pulse account
From the navigation bar, tap the Menu icon or your organization's logo.
Tap Add Account.
Enter your account information.
Switch between Brightspace Pulse accounts
From the navigation bar, tap the Menu icon or your organization's logo.The current active account is indicated by a Checkmark icon. If there is at least one outstanding notification for any of the accounts, a  red notification dot displays on the account's organization logo.
From the list, tap the account you want to switch to. 
Remove a Brightspace Pulse account
From the navigation bar, tap the Menu icon or your organization's logo.
From the list, long-press (tap and hold) the account you want to remove (except the active one, indicated by a Checkmark icon). Note: You cannot remove the active account unless it is the only account, in which case you are then directed to the Welcome experience in Brightspace Pulse when you initially load the app.
Tap  Remove Account.
Sign out from all Brightspace Pulse accounts
From the navigation bar, tap the Menu icon or your organization's logo.
Tap  Settings.
Tap Sign Out of All Accounts.




--------------------------------------------------


View and edit activities in Brightspace Pulse

Brightspace Pulse displays activities mapped from corresponding data in Brightspace. These activities can include assignments (mapped from an assignment, discussion forum/topic, checklist, or survey), evaluations (mapped from a quiz or grade item), and readings (mapped from a content topic).



--------------------------------------------------


View courses and course content in Brightspace Pulse

From Courses tab in Brightspace Pulse, you can view the courses you are currently enrolled in, allowing you to access course content. By default, this tab displays when you log in to Brightspace Pulse. In addition, you can view content module descriptions (if available) and access the course homepage in Brightspace. 
Supported content types
When viewing course content in Brightspace Pulse, supported content types include:
HTML
PDF (special features such as password protection are unsupported)
MP4 video (H.264, AAC)
DOC, DOCX
XLS, XLSX
PPT, PPTX
MP3 audio
Brightspace Capture video
Enhanced course tiles
If configured by your administrator, you can view enhanced course tiles that provide details about your assigned courses. 
Important: To display these details, courses must be assigned using Learning Groups, have a  due date, and have Course Completion Tracking enabled.  Course update indicators do not require courses assigned using Learning Groups.
Enhanced course tiles display:
The course due date 
The date the course was completed by the user
A Complete status indicator when all items in the course are complete
An Overdue status indicator when items in the course are not complete by the due date
Course update indicators with links to Assignments, Discussions, and Quizzes
Figure: The enhanced course tile with course details.
View content module details
A content module is a stand-alone instructional unit that is designed to satisfy one or more learning objectives in a course. A module consists of one or more topics.
Tap the Courses tab. This displays the courses you are currently enrolled in, and a button to access the org homepage in Brightspace.
Tap a course. The course’s content displays, and a button to access the course homepage in Brightspace.
From the course Table of Contents, tap a module. 
Tap View description to view the module details. The content module details open in a web view that displays rich HTML content, including images and functional links.

Figure: A content module description in Brightspace Pulse.
View topic descriptions
You can view full HTML topic descriptions that can contain vital information about your course.
Tap the Courses tab. This displays the courses you are currently enrolled in, and a button to access the org homepage in Brightspace.
Tap a course. The course’s content and a button to access the course homepage in Brightspace displays.
Navigate to a course topic. Click the three dots next to a topic and select View Description.Figure: The View Description option for a topic in Pulse.
The topic displays in full HTML with functional links and content.
Pin and unpin a course
To help learners more easily find their current courses in Brightspace Pulse, learners can  pin and unpin courses from the Courses and Course Homepage screens. Pinning a course ensures it remains at the top of the screen for easy access. Pinning or unpinning a course in Brightspace Pulse displays the same pinned or unpinned status in Brightspace.
Note: The Courses screen displays all courses the learner is currently enrolled in, with pinned courses appearing at the top of the list.
Do one of the following:
From the Courses screen, tap the ellipses (...) icon in a course tile.
From the Course Homepage screen, tap the ellipses (...) icon at the top of the screen. 
From the list of actions, tap Pin or Unpin. A pinned course is denoted by a Pin icon. Unpinning a course removes the pin icon.
Download non-HTML files for offline viewing
To complete learning activities without an Internet connection, learners can download non-HTML topic files (PDFs and MP4s) for offline viewing in Brightspace Pulse.
Notes:
Downloaded PDF and MP4 topic files can only be viewed in Brightspace Pulse. Although downloaded files use the mobile device's file storage, they cannot be viewed in another app or transferred from the mobile device.
The limit of downloadable files is determined by the available space on the mobile device.
For PDF files, there is no support for special PDF features (password protection, printing restrictions, etc.), or support for other document types (DOCX, XLSX, PPTX, HTML, images, etc.).
For MP4 files, there is no support for streaming video, or other video and audio formats (MP3 audio, etc.).
In Brightspace Pulse, view a topic file containing a PDF or MP4.
From the ellipsis (...) menu at the top of the page, tap Make available offline. 
Without an Internet connection, in Brightspace Pulse, navigate back to the table of contents and tap the downloaded topic file, indicated by the Downloaded File icon.
To remove the topic file from the mobile device, from the ellipsis (...) menu at the top of the page, tap Remove from device. Tip: To remove all downloaded content files from the mobile device, navigate to the top-level for the course, tap the ellipsis (...) menu, and tap Remove any offline content.




--------------------------------------------------


View grades for a course in Brightspace Pulse

You can now view all received grades for a course from the Grades tab in the course.
Important: Course grades must be enabled and visible to learners. If course grades are not enabled or visible to learners for a specific course, the Grades tab does not display for that course in Brightspace Pulse.
This functionality does not include:
A consolidated view of all received grades for all courses. You can only view grades you have received. Grades that do not yet have a value do not appear in Brightspace Pulse, but are visible in Brightspace.
Rubrics associated with a grade. To view associated rubrics, navigate to the Grades tool in Brightspace.
Unreceived grades. Only received grades display in the Grades tab.
Final grades or notification of final grades. To view final grades, navigate to the Grades tool in Brightspace.

Figure: The Grades tab for a course in Brightspace Pulse
Tap the Courses tab. 
Tap a course.
Tap the Grades tab. All received grades for the course display, indicating if feedback is available. Tip: To open the Grades tool in a browser and view full grade breakdowns and calculations, tap View Grades in Browser.
To view feedback, tap a grade. The grade and text feedback display. 
To view details about the associated activity in Brightspace, tap View Activity.




--------------------------------------------------


View and configure push notifications in Brightspace Pulse

To ensure that you receive up-to-date information, Brightspace Pulse sends push notifications for all new and updated notifications. This removes the need to manually check for notifications.  Push notifications help to keep you informed about course-related updates from Announcements, Activity Feed, Grades, Quizzes, Assignments, and Content in Brightspace.
After logging in for the first time, course notifications do not appear in Pulse until new updates are created in Brightspace.
Note: Discussion topic due dates are unsupported as notifications in Brightspace Pulse.
View push notifications
If there are unread notifications,  a  red notification dot displays on the Notifications tab. 
Note: If you have multiple Brightspace Pulse accounts and there is at least one outstanding notification for any of the accounts, a  red notification dot displays on the Menu icon or organization logo in the navigation bar.

Tap the Notifications tab. The Updates sub-tab displays the following  notification types:

Introductory updates - When you log in to Brightspace Pulse for the first time, introductory notifications appear. Each notification provides a tip on how Brightspace Pulse can keep you notified about the latest grades and Announcements for your courses. 


Created or updated course content - To keep you informed about course content, Brightspace Pulse sends notifications when course content is created or updated in Brightspace. You can view new and updated content associated with a notification, viewing the content directly in Brightspace Pulse. This also applies to content where a due date has been associated with the item. To view the content, tap the update and then tap Open. If there is no file URL available, tap Open in browser, which opens the content in Brightspace.


Created or updated Course Overview documents - When an instructor adds or updates the Course Overview document in Brightspace, you receive notifications in Brightspace Pulse and the Brightspace minibar.In Brightspace, you can optionally choose to receive instant notifications via email or text message when the Course Overview document is updated. 


Course announcements - When an instructor wants to communicate changes to course updates, information, and reminders via course announcements, you receive a course announcement in Brightspace Pulse. 


Activity Feed - When an instructor uses Activity Feed to post reminders about upcoming assignments and links to course materials, you receive notifications about those posts. Tapping an Activity Feed notification displays the associated post or comment in the Activity Feed.


New grades - When an instructor enters grades in a grade book, you receive grade notifications in Brightspace Pulse. View grades in Brightspace Pulse by tapping the update and then swiping left to reveal the grade.

Upcoming quizzes and assignments - You receive notifications about upcoming quizzes and assignments under the following conditions:
If the assignment or quiz has a due date, you are notified two days before the due date.If the assignment or quiz has no due date, but has an end date, you are notified two days before the end date. 
Note: By default, notifications display two days before each activity's due date or end date. However, your administrator can change the default value to specific hours or days.The Subscriptions sub-tab displays all replies to discussions you are subscribed to and @-mentions in discussion threads.
Note: To receive subscription notifications in Brightspace Pulse, you must subscribe to discussions from the Discussions tool in Brightspace.

Configure push notifications
Select which push notifications you receive from course activities on your device.

From the homepage, on the top left, tap your organization icon, and then tap Settings.


Under Notifications, tap Push Notifications.
Figure: Configure push notifications.


Scroll down and tap to toggle a push notification on or off.

Personalize instant notifications for email and SMS
You can choose which email or SMS notifications you receive by accessing settings directly from the Pulse app.

From the homepage, on the top left, tap your organization icon and then tap Settings.


Tap Email/SMS Notifications.


Under Instant Notifications, tap to select any SMS or Email notifications you wish to receive.Figure: The Instant Notifications section of the Email/SMS Notifications page.


Tap Done to save your personalized notifications.





--------------------------------------------------


Troubleshooting Brightspace Pulse

Logging in
Why can't I log in?
If you cannot connect to your school or organization, the problem could be:
Your school or organization turned off access to Brightspace Pulse. 
You entered your ID or password incorrectly or all caps are on (login credentials are case-sensitive).  Use the same credentials you use to log in to your school or organization’s Brightspace.
If you are still unable to log in, contact your school or organization’s help desk. They can troubleshoot specific issues you may experience with logging in to Brightspace Pulse.
Why can't I find my school or organization when I search?
If your organization or school does not display in the list when you search, you can add it manually by typing the URL for your school or organization's Brightspace. This field is available when there are zero search results or if you choose to disable your mobile device's geolocation service.
Calendar
Where are my dates?
Brightspace Pulse displays dates added to a course by your instructor. If your instructor has not added dates, they do not appear in the app. Check your course syllabus for due dates that might not appear in the app. If you want to use Brightspace Pulse as your main reference tool for schoolwork, you can add any dates (and personal dates) to the calendar by tapping the Add activity icon: (iOS) or  (Android).
Where did my dates go?
If your dates disappeared or aren’t displaying, check your internet connection and refresh the page. Depending on the time of day, it may take a few attempts before the dates load.
Can I add my own calendar items?
Yes, you can add your own calendar items for any course in Brightspace Pulse. Adding a personal date provides you with a link to that course’s homepage in a web browser.Note: Any dates you add are local to your device, and are not synchronized to Brightspace.
I added my own calendar items, but I can't see them on my new device.
Currently, personal dates do not persist across devices. If you are using Brightspace Pulse on a phone and tablet, or upgraded to a new phone, those personal dates are not visible on both devices. You can re-add them, if necessary.
How can I mark Work To Do activities as complete?
Work To Do completion is synchronized with the activity in Brightspace. So, for an activity to be marked as complete in Brightspace Pulse, it must be completed where appropriate in Brightspace. You can complete an activity by tapping the Work To Do item, then tapping the link in the activity details view. Once the activity is completed, and the data is updated (you can pull to refresh for faster updates), the checkmark should darken to indicate that it’s complete. If you add a Work To Do item manually, you can mark it as complete by tapping the Mark As Complete button in the Work To Do’s detail view. If you are on the week view, the calendar graph adjusts to the completed work, becoming flatter as you mark activities as complete.
Why don't percentage values appear for any of my activities?
While Brightspace Pulse can retrieve data from your courses in Brightspace, it cannot determine percentage values for individual activities. Percentage values must be manually added in Brightspace Pulse.
What does the graph indicate?
How can I turn the graph on or off?
You can toggle where the graph appears by tapping the Menu icon and then Graph Settings. From there, you can choose which tabs you want the graph to appear on. When the graph is turned off, your date items appear in a list.
Notifications
I don't have any notifications.
If you are receiving notifications in Brightspace (from a browser), but not in the  Notifications tab in Brightspace Pulse, there could be an issue with how your school configured the app.
Can I delete old notifications?
Currently, you cannot delete old notifications in the Notifications tab.
Courses
Why  can't I see the courses that I am enrolled in?
It's possible that the courses you're enrolled in haven't started yet or they don't have any dates associated with them.
Where are my grades?
In Brightspace Pulse, you receive notifications for grades in the Notifications tab, which you can open and review at your leisure. To see a centralized view of your grades, tap the  Courses tab, open the course homepage, and navigate to the grades section of your course.
How do I submit an assignment or take a quiz?
You can submit an assignment or take a quiz from the Upcoming tab or Courses tab. From the Upcoming tab, if the assignment or quiz has a due date associated with it, open the details of that activity, and then tap the button at the bottom of the page to launch that activity in your mobile browser. From the Courses tab, you can open the course homepage by selecting a course  and completing the associated activity in the browser.
Content
Why can't I see my course content?
If you can’t see your course content, it is likely due to how your school or organization configured the content, making it inaccessible to Brightspace Pulse. Contact your school or organization's help desk.
I open a file but it's blank.It is possible that the content you are trying to access is in a file type that is incompatible with your device.
I don't see updated course content in the Notifications tab
Course content updates only appear in the Notifications tab if the instructor checks the Notify students that the content has changed option for the updated content in Brightspace. This applies to the classic Content experience only; updates do not appear for new Content experience (Lessons). Contact your instructor for more information.
I don't see any updates in the Notifications tab or I cannot access my course documents, announcements, grades, etc.
When you initially log in to Brightspace Pulse, no course content updates appear until new updates come from Brightspace; however, introductory updates appear. The Brightspace Pulse app provides you with updates when announcements are created in your courses and when you receive new grades from your instructors.
Offline Content
What files can I view offline in Brightspace Pulse for iOS?
Brightspace Pulse allows you to save files for offline viewing; however, you must first open the file in Brightspace Pulse while connected to the internet and mark it as Make available offline. On iOS devices, you can view the following files offline:
Images (bmp, gif, png, jpeg, jpg, svg)
                Office Documents (doc, docx, ppt, pptx, rtf, xls, xlsx, txt)
               Mac Office Documents (key, numbers, pages)
               PDFs
                Select Media Files (mp3, mp4, m4a, mav, mov)
What files can I view offline in Brightspace Pulse for Android?
Brightspace Pulse allows you to save files for offline viewing; however, you must first open the file in Brightspace Pulse while connected to the internet and mark it as Make available offline. On Android devices, you can view the following files offline:
               Office Documents (doc, docx, ppt, pptx, rtf, xls, xlsx, txt)
                Mac Office Documents (key, numbers, pages)
                PDFs
              Select Media Files (mp3, mp4)




--------------------------------------------------


Get started with Course Catalog

Course Catalog displays a list of active courses and programs for your organization, enabling you to enroll in courses and programs that interest you.
Create an account in Course Catalog
To create an account in Course Catalog
On the Course Catalog homepage, click Register.
On the Create Your Account page, enter your registration details.
Select the I agree to the Terms of Service & Privacy Policy check box if it appears on your screen. This option does not appear if your organization does not require this step.
Click Submit.
Log in to Course Catalog
On the navbar, click Log In.
Enter your Username and Password.
Click Log In.
Log out of Course Catalog
On the navbar, from your personal drop-down list, click Log Out > Log Out. 



--------------------------------------------------


Find and enroll in courses using Course Catalog

View courses and programs in Course Catalog
On the navbar, click Browse Courses.
Do any of the following:To search for a course, in the Search field, enter a course name.To sort available courses, in the Sort by drop-down list, select Title, Starting Soon, or Newest Added.To sort available courses and programs, in the Listing Type drop-down list, select Courses or Programs.To sort course delivery formats, in the Instruction Format drop-down list, select Self-paced or Instructor-led.To filter available course and program categories, in the Categories area, select your categories. To reset the display of courses, click Reset.
Click on a course or program for a full description.
Enroll in a course in Course Catalog
To enroll in a course in Course Catalog
Use Course Catalog to enroll in online or in-person courses offered by your organization. 
Course offerings may have a fee associated with them. Course Catalog integrates with PayPal to provide easy, secure payment options.
On the navbar, click Browse Courses.
Click the title of the course for a full description.
Select the I agree to the Terms of Service & Privacy Policy check box if it appears on your screen. 
Do one of the following:If course space is available, click Enroll. If the course is full and has a waitlist, click Join the Waitlist for This Course. This option is only available for courses that have waitlists enabled.
If the course requires payment, click the PayPal Checkout link to access PayPal's secure payment site. Follow the instructions provided.
Click Confirm Payment and Enroll. You will receive a payment reference number from PayPal upon enrollment. Keep this number for your records. 
Watch how to enroll in a course in Course Catalog

Getting approval for a course enrollment
Sometimes, you might be required to get approval before you can enroll in a course or program. In some cases, there may be more than one person identified who can grant approval; however, only one approval is required. 
There are two types of approval. With prefigured approval, the administrator defines one or more people who can approve course enrollment. An example of this type of approval is when an instructor has the authority to approve enrollment for students in their course offering. With learner-provided approval, the learner provides the email address of the person who can approve the course enrollment. An example of this type of approval is when a learner in a corporate environment requires their team lead or business unit manager to approve a course.
If the course you want to enroll in requires approval, you cannot successfully register for the course or program while the approval is pending. To complete the enrollment approval process:
From the Course Catalog course listings, select a course.
Click Request Approval.
If required, type the email address of the person who can approve your course enrollment request.
To add another approver, click Add Another. Then type the email address of the approver.
Read and agree to the Terms of Service and Privacy Policy and complete the enrollment information required for this course.
Click Request Approval.
Unenroll from a course in Course Catalog
You may be able to unenroll from courses in Course Catalog, depending on your organization's configuration.
If your organization has enabled direct unenrollment, you can unenroll instantly from courses, but not from entire programs in Course Catalog. You must unenroll individually from each course within a program.
If you paid a fee for a course when you enrolled, you must contact your administrator directly for your refund. Your administrator may require the reference number you received from PayPal when you initially enrolled in the course.
On the navbar, click My Courses.
From the description of the class you want to leave, click Unenroll.
Enroll in a program in Course Catalog
Enrolling in a program automatically enrolls you in all of the courses that make up the program. You can enroll in all of the courses in a program simultaneously if there is no fee associated with any of the courses. 
On the navbar, click Browse Courses.
From the Listing Type drop-down list, select Programs. 
Click the title of the program for a full description and to view the courses in a program.
Click Enroll. You may have to enroll in each course in the program individually, depending on your organization's configuration. 
View your courses in Course Catalog
The My Courses page lists all of the courses you are enrolled in. 
On the navbar, click My Courses.
On the My Courses page, do any of the following:To view the courses you are currently enrolled in, click Current.To view courses you are enrolled in that have not started yet, click Upcoming.To view courses you want to enroll in, click Waitlisted.To view courses you have completed, click Past. To view courses you are awaiting approval to join, click Pending.Join the waitlist for a course in Course CatalogTo join the waitlist for a course in Course CatalogYour organization may have waitlists for courses that limit the number of learners who can register. If you want to enroll in a course that does not have space available, you can join the waitlist to be notified if a space becomes available prior to the course start date.Waitlists are not available for courses that have a cost associated with them. If a course fee is added after you join the waitlist, you will remain on the waitlist and be eligible to enroll if space becomes available, but the waitlist will be closed to other learners. On the navbar, click Browse Courses.Click the title of the course for a full description.Click Join the Waitlist for This Course.Watch how to join the waitlist for a course in Course Catalog




--------------------------------------------------


View your grades

Use the Grades tool on the navbar to check your grades on assignments and quizzes. You can see your individual grades and the grade formula used to evaluate you. Depending on how your grades are set up, you might be able to view comments and overall class performance statistics as well.
Note: Bonus grade items are displayed without the grade formula because they are added to the final grade after other calculations and may not adhere to the established grade scheme. Therefore, you can only view the numeric value and possibly the weight of a bonus grade.
Access Grades
Access the course where you wish to view your grades.
From the navbar, click Grades.

Figure: Course navbar with the Grades tool highlighted.
How do I know when my grades are visible?
As you complete activities throughout the duration of your course, you will receive notifications indicating that your grades for quizzes, assignments, or discussions are available for you to see. You will know if there are any new course notifications for you if there is an orange dot on the Notifications icon on your minibar.
Access your grades through notifications
Click the Notifications icon on the mini bar.
View your recent course notifications.
Click on the notification that you want to see to learn about your course activity grades.

Figure: The Message alerts icon displaying grades and feedback notifications.
If you have not received a notification for a grade that you are waiting for, reach out to your instructor directly.  
How do I view grades for old courses?
If your school has granted you continuous access to courses even after you completed them, you can review past grades that were achieved after the completion of past quizzes and assignments.
Access grades for old courses through the Course Selector
Click on the Course Selector (waffle) icon at the top of the page.       
Figure: The Course Selector icon on the minibar.
You will find a list of courses that you have access to. Click on the course that you want to access.
Navigate to the Grades tool.
Review grades achieved from the course that you have already completed.
Access grades for old courses through the My Courses widget
Find the My Courses widget   on your organizational homepage.
Figure: The My Courses widget.
Find thumbnails of the courses that you have access to. Click on the one that you would like to access.Note: Click View All Courses to expand the list if you do not see the course you are looking for.
Navigate to the Grades tool.
Review grades achieved from the course that you already completed.
If you do not have access to past courses or cannot find the grades that you are looking for, reach out to your instructor for further assistance.
Video: How to Access and Remove an Old Course

View grade exemptions
You can view grade item exemptions in several locations in Brightspace. On the My Grades page, exemptions are listed in the Grade column. Points and weights that appear on the Grades page are controlled by instructor; however, the Grade column always shows exempted grade items.
Viewing your grades
Your Grades page may not include every column shown in this documentation. Your instructor controls the items you see in your grade book. Your Final Calculated Grade is an average of all of your current graded assignments. Your Final Calculated Grade may not be visible until the end of the term because your instructor controls when this grade is made visible.

Figure: The Final Calculated Grade page in Grades.
Grade Item: The name of the graded assignment.
Points: Your score on the graded assignment out of the total points possible.
Weight Achieved: Determined by the points earned and how much the graded assignment is worth with respect to the grade category or final grade.
Grade: The grade earned on the assignment is displayed as a percentage.
Video: Understanding Grades

Gradebook
Keep track of your learning progress by checking your grade book. You can see your individual grades from course activities that your instructor has marked for you as well as the grade formula used for evaluation. Depending on how your grades are set up, you might be able to view comments and overall class performance statistics as well.
Note: The amount of information visible in your grade book will differ depending on what your instructor has set up for you to see.
Access Gradebook
Navigate to your course.
Click on the Grades tool on the navbar.
View grades for course activities that you completed and were marked by your instructor.
Visual Tour: Gradebook

Figure: Gradebook view for learners.
Grade Category: Grade categories organize and group related grade items into sections in your grade book. For example, a Quizzes grade category would be used to group all grade items for Quizzes that you will complete.
Grade Item: Grade items represent all the work that you will be evaluated on in your course. Grade items can exist independently in your grade book; or they can be associated discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Each grade item has an entry in the grade book, which will display the grade you achieved for each individual course activity.
Grade Achieved: The grade that your instructor has given you for a particular grade item.
Comments and Feedback: Overall assessment feedback that your instructor wrote for you to see. Graded rubrics may also be available if they were associated with the activity that was marked.




--------------------------------------------------


View course progress with the Class Progress tool

The Class Progress tool helps track your progress in a course by measuring the completion of  different progress indicators. You may want to use the Class Progress tool to keep track of your course-specific assignments and feedback. Instructors can use the Class Progress tool to track your overall progress in the course and prepare progress reports. 
 Progress reports are available for the following progress indicators: Summary, Grades, Standards, Objectives, Content, Discussions, Assignments, Quizzes, Checklist, Surveys, Login History, and System Access History.
Note: Based on your organization's settings, the Standards tab may have a different label, for example, Learning Outcomes. In addition, some of the tabs may not display.
To view your course progress in the Class Progress tool
From the navbar, click Class Progress. The Summary tab displays.

Figure: The Summary tab in the Class Progress tool.
To view details of your progress within each category, click the Expand icon. For example, the Grades area displays all graded items and their feedback in the course. You may also see the distribution of grades for the rest of the class. On this graph, a black dot represents your grade. To view graded rubrics and feedback, click Feedback.

Figure: A detailed view of Grades in the Summary tab of the Class Progress tool.
Note: This assessment information  applies to other categories in Class Progress such as Discussions, Assignments and Quizzes, making all of your grades and feedback accessible from one location.
Other tabs in the Class Progress tool display more detailed information about your progress. For example, the Content tab displays your progress in content. Each module has a progress bar that displays your completion level. You can expand each module to see which topics you have and haven't completed.

Figure: The Content tab in the Class Progress tool.
Video: Getting started with the Class Progress tool

Video: Class Progress tool overview




--------------------------------------------------


View and share earned awards

You can check and share awards granted by instructorsof a course.
View awards 
To view earned awards
Navigate to Awards.
To see the awards you've already earned, click My Awards. 
To filter the awards that appear, click All, Badges, or Certificates.
To view all the awards you've earned in the courses you have participated in, select Include awards from other courses.
To view the other awards that you have not yet earned in the course, click View Available Awards.
Share earned awards
Many users find that earning course awards is a great accomplishment. To showcase these achievements, you can share your awards with others either internally (in Brightspace) or externally.
Note: Administrators must turn on the ability to share awards. Awards can be shared internally to Brightspace ePortfolio and/or Profile, and they can be shared externally to Badgr, to LinkedIn, and/or via a public link. Instructors can turn these sharing options off for their courses if desired.
Share awards
To share awards
On the navbar, click Awards.
On the My Awards  page, find the awards you want to share.
If you want to filter awards to the specific course you are currently viewing, unselect Include awards from other courses.
Click the Share link on the award you want to share.Figure: Click Share to share the desired award either internally or externally.
Select the location where you want to share the award.
Share awards internally in Brightspace
To share your award internally, click Share to Profile or Send to ePortfolio.
Figure: Click either Share to Profile or Send to ePortfolio  in the Share My Award dialog to share your award.
Share awards via a public link
To share your award externally, click Create Link to generate a public link, which can be copied to your desired location for sharing. Then click Close.

Figure: Click Create Link  in the Share My Award dialog to generate a URL that you can use to share you award.

Figure: Click Copy Link to copy the URL to your clipboard.
Figure: Follow the award sharing via a public link workflow to share your award.
Note: Depending on your site configuration, you can also share awards to Badgr by clicking the corresponding button.
Share awards  to a LinkedIn profile
To share an award to your LinkedIn profile
Click Share to LinkedIn. Figure: Click Share to LinkedIn in the Share My Award dialog.
Review the information that should be in your LinkedIn profile's Licenses and certifications section and select Include public link to award if you want to add a link to your achievement. The option to include a public link is only available if it has been turned on by your administrator. Click Share to LinkedIn.				Figure: Review the sharing settings and then click Share to LinkedIn.Your profile on LinkedIn is opened in a new browser window. The information about your award, including its Name, Issuing Organization, Issue & Expiration Date, and Public URL (if applicable), is automatically populated in LinkedIn's Add license or certification modal window.Note: You are prompted to log in to LinkedIn upon sharing if you are not already signed in.
Click Save.Figure: Follow the workflow for adding an award to a LinkedIn profile.
The award appears in your LinkedIn profile's Licenses & Certifications section. You can also share this accomplishment via the LinkedIn homepage news feed.
Export and share awards as digital credentials 
You can download your earned certificates or badges as an industry-standard Open Badges 2.0 compliant Badge for further keeping or sharing.
Note: Not all applications support Open Badges 2.0 Badge Baking. Some third-party applications strip metadata from images, causing baked badges to be non-compliant with Open Badges 2.0.
To download an award:
On the navbar, click Awards.
On the My Awards  page, find the awards you want to share.
If you want to filter awards to the specific course you are currently viewing, unselect Include awards from other courses.
Click the Share link on the award you want to download.
 Click Export Digital Credential. Figure: Click Export Digital Credential.
In the opened window, provide and confirm your email address.
Click Export.
Exporting a digital credential downloads badges or certificates as a .png file with the award data embedded in the image.
Video: Share Awards with a Public Link

Awards FAQ
What's the difference between a Badge and a Certificate?
Badges are awarded based on any criteria determined by your instructor. They are meant to provide digital markers that represent accomplishment throughout a course or program.
Certificates are also awarded based on criteria determined by your instructor. Certificates are similar to Badges, however, they include a PDF that you can print.
To learn more, refer to Awards.
I just received an award, but there's no option to share it externally. How can I create a link to share it externally when there's only an internal sharing option?
The ability to share awards externally is determined by your institution. Contact your instructor or your institution if you want to share your awards externally.



--------------------------------------------------


Review feedback and rubrics

First, verify with your instructor that feedback is available for viewing.
If your instructor informs you that feedback is available for the activity, you can view the feedback from the respective tool. Depending on how Brightspace is configured for your  institution, there are several ways you can view feedback: Discussions, Assignments, Quizzes, and Grades. 
How rubrics relate to your grade
Rubrics are used to assess your achievement on course activities (assignments and discussions), based on predefined achievement levels and assessment criteria. They help ensure that activities are evaluated fairly and consistently and can enable you to view the grading criteria before submitting activities. 

Figure: Graded rubric feedback for an assignment
Rubrics are associated directly with course activities, so you may have the option to view the criteria used to assess your activity before you submit your work. However, in some cases, your instructor may choose to hide a rubric for an activity until it is graded and feedback is published. This may be done to prevent learners from using rubrics as answer keys for activities. For example, your instructormay describe assessment expectations in assignment instructions, hiding the associated preview rubric. Once the assignment is graded, your instructor releases the graded rubric as part of your assessment details.
Note: Previous evaluations are not affected if your instructor changes the status of the rubric to archived.
The graded rubric for the activity includes achieved criteria, personalized feedback, and score. In some cases, the activity includes a link to the graded rubric. For example, a discussion shows instructor feedback, score, and a link to the graded rubric.
When you are notified that your grade for an activity is released or updated, you can view the feedback from the respective tool. 
Note: Depending on how Brightspace is configured in your organization, you may also go to Grades, User Progress, and Content to see completed rubric feedback for activities. In User Progress, you can only see the names of the rubrics if there are multiple rubrics attached to an activity.
Viewing feedback in Discussions
Use the View Graded Rubric button in Discussions to view how your instructor assessed your answers and review your grade.
To view feedback in Discussions
From your course homepage, navigate to Discussions.
Click on the discussion topic you want to review feedback for.
You can read the feedback from your instructor in the Feedback section below the discussion’s description.
Below the discussion’s description, click the View Graded Rubric link to open the rubric in a pop-up window.
Click the Close button once you have finished reviewing your feedback.
Figure: Accessing feedback for a discussion.
Viewing feedback in Assignments
Access the View Feedback page from Assignments to review your assignment grade and feedback from your instructor.
To view feedback in Assignments
From you course homepage, navigate to Assignments.
Click on the assignment you want to view feedback for.
From the Assignments page, click Unread in the Evaluation Status column for your assignment.
From the View Feedback page, you can view your submission feedback, rubric assessment, and grade.
If your instructor added annotated feedback to the assignment, click View Inline Feedback. The annotation view opens in a new tab, displaying annotated feedback using highlighting, freehand drawing, shapes, and commenting.
To download the annotated assignment as a PDF, click Download.
When you are finished viewing your feedback, navigate back to the View Feedback page and click Done.Figure: The submission feedback for an assignment with a graded rubric.
Viewing feedback in Quizzes
By clicking Unread in the Evaluation Status column, you can view your right and wrong answers for quizzes.
To view feedback in Quizzes
From your course homepage, navigate to Quizzes.
Click on the quiz you want to view feedback for.
You can review feedback in two ways. Do one of the following options:
Click the drop-down menu next to the quiz title and select Submissions.Click the Unread link in the Evaluation Status column.Figure: The drop-down menu next to a quiz and the Feedback: Unread option highlighted in Quiz List.Figure: An example of feedback for a quiz.
If you click on any of your quiz attempts, you will see a report based on how your instructor has set up the review process.Note: The exam review can show you the question, your answer, the correct answer, and any comments from your instructor. You can also see your score for each question. Not all exam reviews will have these options as it depends on the settings for that specific course. Many exam reviews may allow you to review the exam for only a limited amount of time.Figure: An example of a quiz review for a quiz attempt.
Viewing feedback and rubrics in Grades
To view feedback and rubrics for Discussions
Navigate to Grades.
Click the discussion post you want to review the feedback and rubric for.
Click View Graded Rubric.
Read your grade and any feedback in the Comments and Assessments column.Figure: An evaluation for a discussion post with the View Graded Rubric link highlighted.
To view feedback and rubrics for Assignments
Below the score and feedback for an assignment, click on the following:
Inline Feedback: View annotation feedback that your instructor has left for the assignment.
Graded Rubric: Opens the rubric in a pop-up window where you can read feedback and see the rubric criteria.
Note: You can also view the Overall Feedback section under Comments and Assessments.

Figure: An assignment feedback page showing the links for View Inline Feedback and View Graded Rubric.
Print a preview of a rubric attached to an assignment or discussion
Printed rubrics include the logo from the organization that issued the rubric; specifically, the logo image that was displayed in the course navigation bar. 
To print a preview of a rubric
From your course homepage, navigate to Quizzes, Grades, Assignments, and Discussions.
Click on the grade item for which you want to print the rubric.
Do one of the following:
In an assignment, the rubric preview appears and the print button displays in the top right of the rubric.In a discussion topic, click the link to the rubric. A pop-up window displays the rubric with the print button in the top right corner.

Click Print Rubric.


Select the printer or PDF driver you want to use and click Print.





--------------------------------------------------


Learning Paths and the My Learning widget

Learning Paths is a tool that groups multiple courses into a sequential, easy-to-follow program that allows you to achieve specific learning goals for training, professional development, and continuing education. When you are assigned to a learning path by your organization, you are enrolled in every course within the learning path, and you gain access to Learning Paths and the My Learning widget. 
The My Learning widget appears on your My Home page. It displays your assigned learning paths  on a tile with an image, the learning path and/or course name, and a progress bar. Up to four learning path tiles display within the widget. The top image that appears represents your most recently accessed learning path or course. It also displays your active courses that are not part of a defined learning path. The completion status of the courses appears on the course tile.
Click directly on the course or learning path tile in the My Learning widget to directly access the Learning Paths page, or the course homepage. 
 

Figure: The My Learning widget displays both learning paths and courses assigned to you 



--------------------------------------------------


Access Learning Paths from the My Learning widget

Use the My Learning widget on your My Home page to view and access your assigned learning paths. Click on a learning path tile in the widget to access a specific learning path, or click View All Learning to view all your assigned courses and/or learning paths.
The Learning Paths page displays the following information: 
The learning path name and description
A progress bar  that represents how many courses you have completed within the learning path. Courses within a learning path are considered complete after you have viewed all required topics and activities within a module in each course
The list of courses that make up the learning path, including course title, course description and a summary of the modules contained within each course (which links directly to the modules)
The Continue button that links directly to the first uncompleted module in the learning path.  
Tip: You can only access your learning paths from the My Learning widget on your My Home page. After completing a module within a course, to return to Learning Paths, click Back to content on the menu.



--------------------------------------------------


Reflect on your learning with the Self Assessments tool

Self assessments are a series of questions, similar to quizzes, that provide the opportunity to reflect on your learning and course material comprehension. Responses to self assessments are not graded.
Note: If you need to make a change to your self assessment response or delete a self assessment, contact your course instructor. 
Navigate to Self Assessments.
On the Self Assessment List page, click the self assessment you want to take.
Answer the questions. 
Click Submit.




--------------------------------------------------


Glossary of Terms

A new Glossary of Terms is coming soon.



--------------------------------------------------


Documentation changes for higher ed learners

Looking for what's new in Learner topics? The following list provides links to all higher ed learner help topics that have been newly created or updated. For more information about Brightspace features, refer to our Release Note Updates.
February 2024/20.24.2
Updated the Manage your self-enrollment requests section of the Search for courses and self-enroll using Discover topic to include a note about Instructors deleting enrollment requests.
January 2024/20.24.1
Created the Troubleshooting issues with Quizzes topic.
Updated the Brightspace Virtual Assistant topic to include an updated interface image and workflow change.
Updated the Using the Quizzes tool topic to include updates to quiz attempts that are pending evaluation.
Removed the Create a personal chat with the Chat tool topic.
Updated the Communicate with others using Discussions topic to reflect the correct Insert Stuff file picker workflow.




--------------------------------------------------

