
Navigate Brightspace and find your course

Learn about your Brightspace organizational homepage, how to find a course in your organization, and how to navigate your course level homepage.
Navigate your organizational homepage
The Brightspace organizational homepage is designed to help make your job easier, more efficient, and give you greater reach when it comes to engaging your students.

Figure: Navigate the elements of your organizational homepage
The Home Button: Easily return to your Organizational Homepage from anywhere in Brightspace
The Minibar: Quickly access any course you are enrolled in or teaching, global notifications, and your profile settings. From your username on the minibar, you can make changes to your user profile, notifications, account settings, and log out.
The Navbar: Configurable by your administrative team, the Navbar is a list of tools surfaced on your page for convenient access to powerful Brightspace features.
Widget-Based Homepage: Homepages can be customized with Brightspace Widgets. Widgets, such as Announcements, Quick Eval, Calendar, and access to any course you are enrolled in with the My Courses Widget, are powerful tools that augment and enrich the user experience.
Video: Navigate Brightspace

Find your class 
From the Organizational Homepage, select the desired course using the My Courses widget or Course Selector.

Figure: Navigate to your courses using the My Courses widget or the Course Selector on your organizational homepage.
In the My Courses widget, courses have associated images and students  can access their favorite courses by pinning them to the top of their course list. In the mobile view, widgets stack on top of each other, and the My Courses widget offers many options to teachers.
With this widget,teachers and students  see courses by enrollment date, prioritizing current enrollments. Administrators and power users see courses by the last accessed date. If there are less than 50 total enrollments, they are sorted as follows:
The My Courses widget shows manually pinned courses in the Pinned tab. In the All tab, pinned courses appear first, followed by current enrollments, then future enrollments (if they are available or visible to the user) for a total of 12 enrollments. Note that more than 12 courses might appear if they are all manually pinned. Pinned course tiles display notifications for unevaluated assignment submissions and quizzes, and unread discussion posts.
The Course Selector drop-down menu shows manually pinned courses, followed by current enrollments, then future enrollments (if they are available and visible to the user), and finally, past enrollments (if they are visible to the user).
The View All Courses navigation drills down into the courses by showing manually pinned courses, followed by current enrollments, then future enrollments (if available and visible to the user), then past enrollments (if available or visible to the user) as the default sort. If the user changes the sort order, the filter does not separate pinned courses from other courses based on sort order, filters, and search terms.
If there are more than 50 total enrollments, they are sorted as follows:
The My Courses widget shows manually pinned courses in the Pinned tab. In the All tab, manually pinned courses are followed by up to 12 last-accessed courses. Note that more than 12 courses might appear in the widget if they are all manually pinned.
The Course Selector drop-down menu shows manually pinned courses, followed by up to 12 last-accessed courses, followed by all remaining courses available to the user.
The View all Courses area shows manually pinned courses followed by up to 12 last-accessed courses, followed by all remaining courses available or visible to the user as the sort order. If the user changes the sort order, the filter does not separate pinned courses from other courses based on the sort order, filters, and search terms.
Additionally, you can use the Customize this Widget option to configure the My Courses widget to display tabs that organize courses by Semester Name, Department, or Role for the Org. You can choose to sort the Semester Name and Department tabs alphabetically or reverse-alphabetically. Users can easily view all their courses by clicking through each tab.
The following alerts are available in the My Courses Widget:
startedInactiveAlert: You have courses that have started but are set as inactive. Users may not be able to access these courses. - This alert only appears to administrators and teachers  who have access to inactive courses.
noCoursesMessage: You don't have any courses to display. - This alert only appears to new teachers  and new students  who have not yet been enrolled in any course.
Navigate your course-level homepage
At the course-level , the homepage navbar changes to reflect the tools that are available within your course. You will spend most of your time managing and editing your course within Content.

Figure: Navigate the elements of your course homepage.
Note: This figure displays a recommended configuration of a Course Homepage. Brightspace is highly customizable and your institution may have a different configuration. Some tools could be named differently or not available.
Your Course Homepage has similar features to the Organizational Homepage. There are a few key points of navigation to optimize your time in your course:
Course title:  Select the course title to return to your Course Homepage.
Content: Content is your all-in-one tool for creating and managing all your course materials. We recommend using this tool as the most efficient way to link to the various tools throughout the course.
Announcements widget: This widget helps you stay connected with your learners by making it easy to access and create announcements.
Course Admin: If you cannot find a tool at any point, Course Admin provides a list of all the tools enabled in your course.
Course Navbar
The navbar contains links to course-specific and organization-wide tools and resources. Each course (or org unit) has its own navbar that links to relevant tools for that course. You can create custom links and link groups if you want to include URL links to third-party tools and other areas of Brightspace.
Your organization or specific department can share navbars with courses and other org units to ensure consistent branding and navigation. If you have permission to manage navbars, you can use a shared navbar or create a navbar specifically for your course. New course offerings (or org units) use the default navbar set by the organization (or parent org unit).
Navbars created at the course level cannot be shared with other courses, but you can create and store them inside a course template to make them available in course offerings that use the course template.
Navbars consist of two components: a theme that controls the look of the navbar and the navbar itself (which controls the links available on the navbar). 
At the organization level, navbars listed on the Navbars page display information about whether a navbar is shared to other org units. At the course offering level, all navbars listed on the Navbars page display information about whether they are shared from another org unit (such as a department, course template, or the organization), and the name of the org unit sharing the navbar. If you have permission to manage shared navbars, the name of the org unit sharing its navbar becomes a link to the Navbars page where the navbar was created.
You can only share navbars with child org units below the org unit in which they were created. For example, if you create a navbar in a department you can only share it with all courses in that department. 
You cannot add all tools and functionality to a navbar. Some tools are only available in widgets and on the minibar. You can now add a link in the navbar to the Agent List page.
Course Home
The homepage is the first page you see when you view the organization's My Home page or enter a course. The typical default homepage is widget-based. Widgets are sections of content that provide information and links to tools, courses, and personal settings. Organization and course homepages can point to Brightspace tools, such as Announcements or Content, or an external URL.
Widgets are the building blocks of homepages. You can create, edit, delete, customize, and preview the widgets in your organization.
There are two types of widgets available for your homepages:
System Widgets
Custom Widgets




--------------------------------------------------


Log In to Brightspace

Your experience trying to log in to Brightspace for the first time may differ depending on how your organization has set up and is managing log in credentials. Your organization may have a Single Sign-On (SSO) authentication method implemented, where you can access all the sites in your organization using a single SSO portal. Alternatively, your organization may use a local log in setup where your administrator uses Brightspace to manage usernames and passwords.
Obtain your Brightspace credentials
Your log in experience differs depending on whether your organization uses SSO authentication or a local log in process to provide access to Brightspace. Therefore, D2L strongly recommends that you contact your system administrator or IT Support department if you want to:
Obtain a new username and password to log in to Brightspace for the first time, or
Recover your existing username or password.
Log Out of Brightspace
You can log out of Brightspace from the minibar.
To log out of Brightspace
On the minibar, click your username.
Click Log Out.
You have successfully logged out of Brightspace.



--------------------------------------------------


Customize your course navbar

When you log in to Brightspace, you will notice that your course homepage is broken up into two sections. In the top half, you will see navigation tools, such as your navbar. You can customize your navbar to surface the tools most relevant to you and your  students. Your navbar can be enabled to be text-based or icon-based.
Important: To customize your course navbar, create new navbars, add links to your navbar, or create navbar themes, you must be given Instructor > Navbar permissions. Contact your administrator for more information.

Figure: A text-based navbar.

Figure: An icon-based navbar.
Customize your navbar
On your course navbar, navigate to the Actions for Navbar (...) drop-down menu.
Click Edit This Navbar.

Figure: Click Edit This Navbar in the Actions menu.
On the Edit Navbar page, you can do one or more of the following:Name: Change the name of your course navigation.Add Links: Add different Brightspace tools to your navbar.Note: You can remove a tool from your navbar by hovering over the tool and clicking the X.Enable Icon-Based Navbar: Click the checkbox to change your navbar to icon-based. Deselect the checkbox to make your navbar text-based.Change Theme: Change your navbar's theme. For example, you can change your navbar's color.
Click Save and Close to save and use your new navbar.

Create a navbar
You can create your own custom navbar that appears on your course homepage.
To create a navbar
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Navigation & Themes.
From the Navbar tab, click Create Navbar.

Figure: Click Create Navbar on the Navbars tab.
From the Create Navbar page, do the following:

            Figure: Edit your navbar on the Create Navbar page.Enter a Name for your custom navbar.If desired, click Add a Description and enter a description for your custom navbar.Under Links , click Add Links.  Select your links, and click Add. The list of links available depends on the tools your organization uses, the custom links and link groups available, and the tools enabled for your course.If applicable, click to select Enable Icon-Based Navbar.If you want to change the theme of your navbar, click Change Theme. Select a new theme and click Update.To make this navbar available to specific org units, click Add Org Units.Under More Options, click Change the title in the navbar and select from the following:NoneOrg Unit Name: Use the default Org Unit Name.Custom: Enter a  replace string. For example:{OrgUnitId} - Identifier of the org unit{OrgUnitName} - Name of the org unit{OrgUnitCode} - Code for the org unit{OrgId} - Identifier of the organization{OrgName} - Name of the organization
Click Save and Close.
You have created a custom navbar. To preview your new navbar, from the Navbar tab, click the context menu next to your navbar and select Preview. Select Set as the default to apply your new navbar to your course.
Create and add a new custom link to the navbar
You can also add custom links to your course navbar. These include custom URLs and Quicklinks to existing course materials or third-party tools.
To add a new custom link to your navbar
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Navigation & Themes.
Click the Custom Links tab and click Create Link.

Figure: Click Create Link on the Custom Links tab.
From the Create Custom Link	page, enter the following:	

 Figure: Make a custom link on the Create Custom Link page.	
Name: The name of the link you want to appear in the navbar.
URL: Add the URL path the custom link follows or click Insert Quicklink to link to existing course material or third-party tools.
Behavior: Select how the link opens when the link is clicked:Same windowSame window no navbarNew window/tab: Specify the Width (px) and Height (px) of the new window/tab.
Under Browser Attributes, specify if you want the new window to include the Menubar (File, Edit, etc.), or the Toolbar (Back, Refresh, etc.) or neither of these options.
Description: Provides an optional description of the custom link.
Icon: An icon to use with the custom link.
Availability: Determines the visibility of the custom link. To share with child organization units, select Share with child org units.To limit the visibility of the custom link to specific roles, select  Limit to specific roles and then select the roles.To limit visibility of the custom links to users with specific locales, select  Limit to specific locales and then select the locales
Click Save.
A new custom link is created and added to your navbar.
Create and add custom link groups to your navbar
Custom link groups are multiple links grouped together. You can create custom link groups and use effective link group names to suggest relationships or common features each group shares. For example, you could create an Assessments link group that contains links to the Quizzes, Assignments, Surveys, and Self Assessments tools.
When you create a custom link group and add it to a navbar link area, the link group appears as a drop-down menu labeled with the custom link group name.
To create custom link groups
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Navigation & Themes.
From the Custom Linkstab, click Create Link Group.

Figure: Click Create Link Group on the Custom Links tab.
From the Create Custom Link Group page, do the following:

 Figure: Make a custom link group on the Create Custom Link Group page.Enter a Name for your custom link group.To apply an icon to your custom link group, do any of the following:Drag and drop an image file.Click Upload.Click Choose Existing to apply an image that is already uploaded to Brightspace.If desired, enter a Description for your link group.Select  Share with child org units if applicable.Under Links, do any of the following:To add existing links to the group, click Add Existing Link. Select the links you want to add and click Add.Click Create Link to create a new link.Click Save.
A new custom link group is created. 
To add the custom link group to a navbar
On your course navbar, navigate to the Actions for Navbar (...) drop-down menu.
Select Edit this Navbar.
From the Edit Navbar page, click Add Links.
From the Add Links dialog, click the Custom Groups tab.

Figure: Create Custom Groups in the Add Links dialog.
Select any custom link groups you want to add to your navbar.
Click Add and then click Save and Close.
The custom link group is added to your navbar.
Change your course navbar
You can select and apply a different navbar to your course.
To change your course navbar
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Navigation & Themes.
From drop-down list under the Active Navbar section, select a navbar for your course.
Click Apply.
Create a theme
Themes enable you to customize and brand the look and feel of navbars and page backgrounds. Themes do not control the type of links navbars can contain. When you create a theme, there are two  colors in the theme you can configure to ensure a consistent user experience and adhere to your organization's branding guidelines: 
Primary Color: Modifies the background of the link area in the navbar and units in Lessons (each lesson and folder in a unit displays the same color, only lighter), if enabled. 
Accent Color: Modifies the thin color strip above the navbar.
Notes: 
If the Primary Color is not specified, the default “rainbow” colour scheme is used in Lessons, if enabled.
At the course offering level, all themes listed on the Themes page contain information about whether a theme is shared from another org unit and the name of the org unit sharing the theme. 
If your permissions do not allow you to create themes, you must select from existing themes or use the default theme. Themes created in an org unit are automatically shared with child org units. 
Themes created at the course level cannot be shared with other courses, but you can create and store them inside a course template to make them available in course offerings that use the course template. 
The Theme Preview area displays changes as you make them. 
To create a theme
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Navigation & Themes.
From the Themes tab, click Create Theme.

Figure: Click Create Theme in the Themes tab.
From the Create Theme page, do the following:

            Figure: Make you theme on the Create Theme page.Enter a Name and Description for your theme.To apply a Logo to your theme, do any of the following:Drag and drop an image file.Click Upload.Click Choose Existing to apply an image that is already uploaded to Brightspace.Note: SVG files are recommended for better scaling. The logo can be up to 260 x 60 pixels, but displays at smaller sizes for smaller devices or when viewing a navbar with a course title.Choose a Primary Color to modify the background of the link area in the navbar and units in Lessons (each lesson and folder in a unit displays the same color, only lighter), if enabled. Choose an Accent Color to modify the thin color strip above the navbar.If you want to customize the link destination, click the context menu and select the correct destination from the options in the menu. Click Save and Close.
Your new theme is created. To make your theme the default theme for your course, click the context menu next to your theme and select Make Default.
Video: Create a theme

Delete a theme
You can delete a theme from Brightspace.
Note: You cannot delete a default theme or a theme shared to you from the organization, a parent course, or department. If you want to delete a theme you are prompted to choose a replacement theme for the navbars using the theme you want to delete. If a theme with an identical layout does not exist, you are not allowed to delete the theme until you have created an acceptable replacement.
To delete a theme
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Navigation & Themes.
On the Themes page, from the context menu of the theme you want to delete, click Delete.
In the Choose a Replacement dialog, from the drop-down list, select a new theme.
Click Delete.
Changing the color in the navbar
The color of the strip across the top of the screen is set from the Themes tab in the Navigation and Themes tool. You can select the Organization Default Color or set a unique color for the top color strip for each theme. If you do not set a unique color for a theme, the top color strip and link area defaults to the Organization Default Color.
Note: It is good practice to use a color that is WCAG compliant to ensure the best possible color contrast with white text.
To set a unique color for a theme
Navigate to Course Admin and then click Navigation & Themes.
On the Themes tab, click  Create Theme.

Figure: Click Create Theme in the Themes tab.
You can choose to do the following:
Enter a name for the new theme.
Under Primary Color, you can either use the default primary color or select Choose colors and select a primary navbar color.
To set the navbar text to be black, select Dark Foreground or to set the navbar text to be white, select Light Foreground.
Under Accent Color, you can either use the default accent color or select Choose a color and select an accent color.

Figure: Customize your theme on the Create Theme page.
Click Save and Close.
Add the theme you just created to your navbar. 
On the Navbars tab, to edit your Navbar, click on its name. Note: You cannot edit the default navbar set by your organization. You must create a new navbar if you want to change the color of the navbar.Select Change ThemeFind the theme you created and select it.Figure: Click Change Theme on the Edit Navbar page.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Activate your course

After building your course, ensure that you are aware if it is accessible to students by controlling its availability and active status.  This is particularly important if you only want to make your course available to students during a specified time period or academic term.
Make your course available and active
From your organization homepage, use the course selector to search for and open the course you want to activate.
Navigate to Course Admin > Course Offering Information.
Select Course is active.

Figure: Select Course is active.Note: You can deactivate a course offering to hide it from students by clearing the Course is active check box. 
Click Save.
Important: If a Start Date and End Date are set but the teacher does not select  Course is active, the course does not become accessible to students on the selected Start Date. The course must be activated by selecting Course is active. 
Course start and end date considerations
 If no Start Date and End Date are set in the Course Offering Information, the course is immediately available for students to access in the My Courses widget and in the Select a Course menu. 

Figure: Set a Start Date and End Date for your course.
Note the following start and end date considerations:
If a course is active, the course appears in the My Courses widget, but students will not be able to access it until the start date has passed.
If a course is active and the end date has passed, the course will still be visible in the My Courses widget but will not be able to be opened.
If a Start Date and End Date are set but the teacher does not select  Course is active, the course does not become accessible to students on the selected Start Date. The course must be activated by selecting Course is active.




--------------------------------------------------


Create a widget-based homepage

Course widgets can help you engage with your students  by featuring useful tools on your course homepage. The first step is to create a widget-based homepage. Widget-based homepages display a standard homepage that contains various widgets. After you create the homepage, you can add or remove widgets, customize their appearance, and create custom widgets to expand the functionality of your course homepage.
Note: In addition to widgets included in Brightspace Core, you can also access a catalogue of homepage system widgets to provide a more customized learning experience for your homepages. Refer to the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack topic for more information.
Create a widget-based homepage
On the navbar, click Course Admin > Homepages.
 From the Homepages tab, click Create Homepage. 
From the Create Homepage page, do the following:

Figure: Customize your homepage on the Create Homepage page.  
Enter a Name and Description for your homepage.
In the Type drop-down, select Widget-based.
To add a header to your homepage below the navbar, select Include homepage header. and enter the replace string of the information that you want it to display. Note: Replace strings are placeholders that refer to information in Brightspace; the system replaces these placeholders with the corresponding information when you apply them to a homepage header. 
To choose a layout for a widget-based homepage, click Change Layout.
To add widgets to your homepage, click Add Widgets. For example, the My Courses widget. Style your added widgets by adjusting their properties.
Click Save and Close.
From the Active Homepage drop-down menu, select your homepage and click Apply. 
Change the My Courses widget default image
In the My Courses widget on your homepage, the courses display a default image assigned from the curated image library. You can also select an image that is more representative of the course from the library provided by D2L, or add your own image for the course tile. Any images that you include with the My Courses widget are available to include in the course components that you export, copy, or import.
To change the default image
Navigate to your course homepage by doing one of the following:If your My Courses widget appears on the My Home page, click the My Home button. If your My Courses widget appears somewhere else, navigate to the location of the widget.
Hover over the course image and click the More Options menu. Note: If you are using assistive technology or keyboard-only navigation, press Tab to access the More Options button and press Enter to view the menu items.
Figure: Click the context menu to access customization options for course images.
Select Change Image or press Enter.
Search or browse the list of available images.
Hover over the image you want to use and click Use this image. If you are using assistive technology or keyboard-only navigation, press Enter to select the image.Figure: You can choose from a variety of images for your course.
To help instructors and course designers to create great visual experiences for their learners, the My Courses widget course tiles now include an instructor-chosen photograph. D2L provides an image library of over 3000 images which are licensed for use within the Brightspace Platform. Instructors and course designers can also upload their own image.
Be aware of the following image size recommendations:
For logo images used on navbars, ensure that your image is a maximum size of 260 pixels by 60 pixels, and saved as SVG filetype. 
For course images, it is recommended that images are  2400 pixels by 960 pixels. Keep in mind that the display height and width of these images may vary in different tools and on different screens and devices. Ensure that any images that you are using appear correctly at different sizes and crop points on laptop, tablet, and mobile device screens. Note: To maintain security, ensure any .jpg images are clear of EXIF (exchangeable image file) data.
Customize the My Courses widget
The My Courses widget can display information about your course, such as the course code. 
Display the course code
From your organizational or course homepage, navigate to the My Courses widget.
From the My Courses context menu, select Customize this widget.

Figure: Click Customize this widget in the My Courses context menu.
From the Customize Widget dialog, do any of the following:

 Figure: Customize the My Courses widget in the Customize Widget dialog.
Select Show Course Code.
Select Show Semester.
Under Group Courses By, do one of the following:Select None to remove course grouping tabs from the widget.Select Semester, then select an alphabetical sorting option from the drop-down menu.Select Department, then select an alphabetical sorting option from the drop-down menu.Select Role.
Under Updates, select Show course updates, and choose which updates you want displayed:Unread Discussion PostsUnread Quiz AttemptsNew Assignment Submissions
Click Save.
Change a custom widget style
All widgets adhere to the Widget container style by default. You can edit the settings of custom widgets to customize the widget style on homepages. 
Note: You cannot change a system widget style.
To change a custom widget style
From your organizational or course homepage, navigate to the My Courses widget.
From the My Courses context menu, select Style this widget.

Figure: Click Style this widget in the My Courses widget context menu.
From the Widget Settings dialog, do any of the following:

 Figure: Change the My Courses widget settings.
To hide the title, clear  Display a Title.
To prevent users from collapsing the widget on the homepage, select Prohibit minimizing widget.
Under Widget Name, do select one of the following:To maintain My Courses as title, select Default.To set a custom title,  select Custom and enter a title.
Click Save.
About the Work To Do widget
The  Work To Do widget provides learners with a summary of assigned learning activities from all their courses that are overdue or have an upcoming due date or end date. The widget can be added to Brightspace homepages to aggregate data from all courses, and to course homepages to show only due and overdue learning activities from the course.
The Work To Do widget displays the following learning activities:
Assignments
Checklists
Content
Courses
Discussions
Surveys
Quizzes
Important:  To view the Work To Do widget, student roles require the  View Work To Do Widget permission set at the Organization level and/or at the Course Offering level to access the widget from the organization homepage or from course homepages. Learning activities only appear in the Work To Do widget when the activity has a defined due date or end date. By default, the widget displays activities due or ending in the upcoming 2 weeks, and overdue work from the previous 12 weeks. For more information about how to change this date range, contact your administrator.
Add the Work To Do widget to your course homepage
Before you begin: The Work To Do widget must be enabled for your organization in order to access it from the System widgets list. You must have a widget-based homepage set up for your course and permissions to edit homepages. Ensure you have set due dates for all learning activities in your course that you want to appear to learners in the Work To Do widget. 
To add the Work To Do widget
At the bottom of your course homepage, click the Homepage Actions Menu. 

Click Edit this Homepage.

Figure: Click Edit this Homepage on the Homepage Actions Menu.

Under Widgets, click Add Widgets.
Click System Widgets. Select the Work To Do.
Click Add.
Drag and drop the widget to the desired location on your homepage.
Click Save and Close.
You have added the Work To Do widget to your course homepage.



--------------------------------------------------


Homepage Widget Expansion Pack

Note: The legacy Homepage Widget Expansion Pack has reached the End of Support milestone and will be retired in December 2024/20.24.12. Clients can continue to use the hosted versions of the widget until that date; however, they are no longer supported by D2L. Clients using the legacy hosted versions of widgets should upgrade to the new Brightspace System widgets. For more information about how to identify which legacy widgets you are using and plan for the retirement of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack in your environment, refer to Upgrading from the Hosted Widgets.
The Homepage Widget Expansion Pack offers a catalog of homepage system widgets to provide a more customized learning experience for your homepages. 
System widgets were available for purchase individually or in packages of 3, as an add-on to your Brightspace product plan. Some may have been included in your implementation package.
Hosted System widgets in the legacy expansion pack were deployed and turned on by D2L; now, clients can upgrade to the new Brightspace System Widgets. The legacy Visual Table of Contents Widget, Welcome Window Widget, and Slim Announcements Widget were configured with the Widget Editor (also deployed and turned on by D2L).
Awards Leaderboard Widget
The Awards Leaderboard widget creates a fun and competitive environment where students can show off their digital badges. Students can see how they compare to their peers, motivating them to pursue more badges in your course.
The Awards Leaderboard displays the top ten students who have earned badges (not certificates) in your course. Your course administrator can configure the Awards Leaderboard to display students with either the highest number of awards or highest number of credits at the top. Students with the same number of awards falling within the top ten grouping are sorted by name in alphabetical order.
Note: Student names may appear as Anonymous User if their role is restricted from seeing first and last names via the User Information Privacy settings. A student's preferred name setting may appear if enabled for them.

Figure: View and display students' badges in the Awards Leaderboard.
Content Navigator Widget
The Content Navigator widget is a streamlined widget that gives students quick access to course topics. Students can select to move from module, to sub-module, to content for more direct access. This widget tracks and displays navigational history and allows one-click navigation to the last-visited module topic. The Content Navigator is useful when:
Your course homepage has another focal widget and you want to contain and collapse a lot of information without taking up too much space.
Your course does not follow a linear progression and you want to provide more direct access to content that matters to students.
Your course is not a course and you are using a Brightspace course as a repository for information, resources, and activities. Students can target content they need right from the homepage.

Figure: An example of the Content Navigator widget.
Learner Awards Widget
The Learner Awards widget is a customizable system widget that can be added to the homepages of course offerings, if enabled for your organization. It can help inspire students with friendly competition by displaying the top 10 users who have earned badges (Awards) in the course. It can also show learners earned and unearned badges. Students can gauge their progress and push themselves to earn them all.
Course administrators with permissions can configure the Learner Awards widget to display students with either the highest Number of Awards or Credits appearing at the top. Students with the same number of awards falling within the top 10 grouping are sorted by name in alphabetical order. If no student in the course has an award, the Learner Awards widget appears in an empty state. 

Figure: The Learner Awards widget displaying the My Awards and Available Awards tabs.
Multi-Profile Widget
The Multi-Profile widget allows you to introduce yourself to yourstudents. You can also use the widget to introduce other teaching assistants or facilitators in your course. The system widget retrieves user information from User Profiles and the Classlist to display a list of users in the course and their roles to students. 

Figure: The Multi-Profile widget.
To learn how to deploy and modify the Multi-Profile widget, refer to Deploy and modify the Multi-Profile Widget.
Photo Banner Widget
The Photo Banner widget is a customizable, course-level widget that displays  uploaded images as a gallery. Users with permissions can upload images, add a  link to the Photo Banner carousel, and customize the background styling of the widget. Users with the appropriate permissions can also add or remove images and configure the background.
The Photo Banner widget is useful when:
You have image-heavy content.
You want to highlight scheduled content.
Your course relies significantly on image-based content for learning.
You ask your students to collect images and you want to curate their work.
You want to have visuals to support learning.
You want to post in-class moments of exploration, collaboration, and discovery.

Figure: The Photo Banner widget.
To learn more about using the Photo Banner widget, refer to Using the Photo Banner Widget.
Single Profile Card Widget
The Single Card Profile widget provides in-line authoring that allows teachers, facilitators, tutors, and other users to introduce themselves to students. Put important details at the forefront, showcase your photo, share social media details, and write other important bio information. Users with the appropriate permissions can upload a photo, add a brief bio, and provide links to social media profiles. 
Note: This widget is intended for teachers who may not otherwise have the permissions to modify course homepages. Editors can change the content of each field from the homepage itself; fields that are empty do not display in the widget.

Figure: The Single Profile widget displaying an example profile.
Slim Announcements Widget
The Slim Announcements widget presents you and your students with a simplified, shorter view of announcements. This widget is great for when you have a lot to say. It is a great option for course creators who want to regularly add announcements, anecdotes, or media – you can share as much as you want without sacrificing the visual design.

Figure: The Slim Announcements widget with the Read More option.
To learn about using the Slim Announcements widget, refer to Using the Slim Announcements Widget.
Visual Table of Contents (TOC) Widget
The Visual Table of Contents (TOC) widget displays a ‘flip tile’ visual representation of modules in a course.  Each course module’s title and image appear on the front of a tile. Students can click on each tile to flip it over and reveal a description of the module. The description and image are pulled from the unit description seen in the Content tool.
The Visual Table of Contents widget also acts as a progress tracker, showing  students the topics completed out of those available. The widget is also smart enough to know where a student left off, so they can select the module title to get to the top level of the module or select the Next Topic button to go to the next unread topic in that module. 
Use this widget when:
You have a content-driven course. The Visual TOC widget adds a highly visual, simplified organization system right on your homepage.
You have a traditional linear course structure.
You want to promote student progress by visualizing progress and reinforcing the importance of completion.

Figure: The Visual TOC widget displaying two modules.
To learn more about using the Visual TOC widget, refer to Using the Visual TOC Widget.
Welcome Window Widget
The Welcome Window widget displays a pop-up message the first time a user logs into a course. This message can include text, images, and even short videos. Course creators and administrators can easily edit and update the content in the pop-up message, and you can include as many pages in the pop-up window as you need. The Welcome Window widget is the perfect tool to welcome users, help orient them to the structure and navigation of the course, and set them up for success.
Use this widget when:
You want to give an orientation about Brightspace to new users.
Your students are new to your course or program. You can discuss policies, assessments, opportunities, and requirements.
You have an important change or announcement you want users to know about.

Figure: The Welcome Window widget showing an Orientation Checklist.
To learn more about using the Welcome Window widget, refer to Using the Welcome Window Widget.



--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Virtual Assistant

Brightspace Virtual Assistant is an AI-based help tool that is integrated directly into Brightspace as a pop-up window from the speech bubble button in the bottom right corner of the screen. It provides immediate access to help documentation without needing to open another browser tab or window. After typing in a question, the tool provides the most relevant documentation available in Brightspace Community.
Get acquainted with Brightspace by accessing support documentation for all your how-to questions and connect to live agents directly in the LMS. Instructors can find step-by-step guides and video tutorials on how to set up their course and its respective activities directly within the product rather than in a new browser tab or window.
Find answers on how to complete course activities and connect with live agents without having to leave Brightspace. Students can find help documentation related to their course issues without having to leave the space where the problem exists.
If users still need more assistance, they can contact a live support agent directly from Brightspace, without seeking D2L End User Support contact information elsewhere.
Note: Brightspace Virtual Assistant is only available in organizations that have subscribed to End User Support Services. It may not be available in your organization. 
Language support
The Brightspace Virtual Assistant is available in all four languages:
English 
French (Canadian)
Spanish (LATAM)
Brazilian Portuguese 
A user’s chosen Language and Locale in their profile will determine the language of AI output messages, the language of the surfaced support articles, and the language of the support received for any chosen channel (phone, email, chat).
Note: If a user’s chosen Language and Locale is not one of the four languages mentioned above, the default experience will be in English.
Accessing help with Brightspace Virtual Assistant
Brightspace Virtual Assistant appears on the login page for your organization, but you must log in to Brightspace before you can access its full functionality. It is recommended to display contact information for available support resources if users experience Brightspace authentication issues.
Note: For organizations where users access the LMS through another SSO system, pre-login information is still recommended in case a user navigates to the Brightspace authentication page.
Open Brightspace Virtual Assistant by clicking  the speech bubble button at the bottom right corner of the screen.
            Figure: Click the Brightspace Virtual Assistant icon to ask a question.
Type a Brightspace-related question into the text box and click Send.
Read the articles suggested based on the question asked; you can toggle between the two to preview what information is included in each.
Click Read Article to read the resource(s) in full screen within the widget.
Click the ← arrow button to return to the search results
Click Open in new tab to view the resource in Community.

Figure: Type your Brightspace-related query into the textbox or access the resource recommended in the chat.
Do one of the following:
Select Ask the Community to be directed to Brightspace Community to post your question in a discussion forum and receive answers from other Community members.
Select Contact Support for further assistance. The following options appear:Call us: users will be given the correct phone number for their organization. Note: This option may not be available for your organization.Email us: a case will be created from the tool and will be sent to the D2L end user support team.Chat with us: users can chat with a live D2L support agent while navigating through different areas of Brightspace. 

Figure: Click Call us, Email us, or Chat with us to access additional help.
Video: Brightspace Virtual Assistant



--------------------------------------------------


About Brightspace Editor

Brightspace Editor is the default editor across Brightspace. You can find Brightspace Editor nearly everywhere you create content in Brightspace.
Overview

Figure: The Brightspace Editor appears anywhere that you create content.
Brightspace Editor allows users to create and insert content across Brightspace. 
Note: When creating or editing Content files with Brightspace Editor or in Manage Files, there is a character limitation of 2.5 million. If the number of characters exceeds the limit, a warning message displays to explain that the number of characters exceeds the allowed amount. The exception to this character limit is uploaded files, but restrictions apply if you edit the uploaded content.
In Brightspace Editor, you can place an asterisk(s) at the beginning and end of a word, and then press Enter to automatically apply a text attribute (font style) to the text. For example:
One  asterisk (*example*) makes a font italic.
Two asterisks (**example**) make a font bold.
 Three asterisks (***example***) make a font bold and italic.
When you add the asterisks and press Enter,the text attribute updates, and the asterisks disappear.
This functionality  cannot be disabled and is browser-independent.
Users can use Brightspace Editor tools for the following: 
Format: Change the format of your text to be a paragraph, heading, blockquote, or code.

Figure: Click Format to choose text formatting options.
Bold: Bold text.
Italic: Italicize text.
Inline Formats: Alter your text to the underline, strike-through, superscript, or subscript formats.
Select Color: Change the color of your text with the color picker.
Note: Attributes such as text orientation, page title, and language can be added or edited through the Other Insert Options > Attributes window.

Figure: Click Select Color to change your text color.

Figure: Select a text color in the Color Picker dialog.
Alignment: Change the alignment of text.
List: Choose between different list formats and indentations.
Insert Stuff: Add content from across Brightspace, your device, and third-party tools. You can add various content like images, links, videos, and more.

Figure: Click Insert Stuff to add various content.

Figure: Select what you would like to add in the Insert Stuff dialog.
Insert Quicklink: Add links to course materials and third-party content.

Figure: Select the quicklink you want to add in the Insert Quicklink dialog.
Insert Image: Add an image from your device or course offering files.
Other Insert Options: Add other elements like equations, tables, attributes (both for individual elements and the entire page), dividers, emojis, symbols, and code.

Figure: Click Other Insert Options to add other types of content.
More Actions (...): Expand the Brightspace Editor toolbar.
Fullscreen: Enter fullscreen mode for Brightspace Editor.
Font: Change the text font.
Font Size: Change the text size.
Format Painter: Highlight text to change its format or insert a link.
Accessibility Checker: Check if your content is accessible for all users. The Accessibility Checker dialog notes where and why your content is not accessible and encourages revisions.

Figure: Click the Accessibility Checker to determine if your content is accessible.

Figure: The Accessibility Checker dialog shows detected accessibility issues.
Word Count: View the word count for your content.
Preview: View how your content will appear to users when published.
Source Code: View and edit the HTML for your content.
Undo/Redo: Reverse an action.
What is not included in Brightspace Editor
     The list below outlines what is not included in the Editor:
Spell check functionality: D2L recommends using your browser spell check functionality. However, the d2l.Tools.Quizzing.ShowSpellCheckInAttempts org unit configuration variable is still respected and marks text in Quizzes to be ignored by the browser spell checker. It can be turned off for all quizzes at the org unit level.
Cut/Paste functionality: D2L recommends using your browser hot keys and menus for this functionality. 
Important: In Brightspace Editor, when you upload a file using Insert Stuff, a message appears indicating that the files uploaded using Insert Stuff are saved in the Manage Files area. The message also indicates that files in the Manage Files area are potentially accessible to all users enrolled in the course or to anyone who has access to the course. As best practice, do not include individual student feedback in the files you are uploading using Insert Stuff.
Content viewing options
The Brightspace Editor has three options you can choose when viewing content:
Design View: The design view loads automatically when Brightspace Editor is accessed. Use this view to quickly create and format content without needing any prior knowledge of HTML. Enter your content and use the available controls to apply formatting to your text, insert images and tables, and create links. 

Figure: The Design View is the default view for Brightspace Editor.
Source Editor View: Click the  HTML Source Editor icon to display the source editor view. This view displays the code that structures and formats your content. Use this view if you have experience with HTML and prefer to author your content in HTML or want to apply styles from a cascading style sheet (CSS). If you have HTML-based content from another application, you can also copy and paste that code into the source editor view.

Figure: The Source Editor View lets you view the HTML for your content.
Preview: Use the view to display a preview of your HTML content in a new window. This allows you to preview content and ensure that it displays as expected prior to saving any changes. 

Figure: The Preview view shows you how your content appears.
Brightspace Editor's inline Editor
The Quiz Builder and Activity Feed support the inline Editor. 
The inline-limited version of Brightspace Editor is available in Activity Feed as the default editor. The Brightspace Editor HTML options in Activity Feed include: 
Bold 
Italic
Underline, Strike-through, Superscript, and Subscript 
Font Color 
Bulleted Lists, Numbered Lists, and Increase/Decrease Indentation 
Insert Stuff
Insert Quicklink
Emoji
Insert Stuff includes various capabilities, including Video Note functionality.

Figure: The inline limited version of Brightspace Editor is used in Activity Feed.
Video: Using the Brightspace (HTML) Editor



--------------------------------------------------


Content experiences

Use the Content tool to post and organize course content so that information about course expectations, course syllabus, lecture notes, and important dates display to users clearly.
Course materials you post in Content can include documents, images, media files, CaptureCast presentations, URL links, and existing course activities. You can add release conditions, grade items, and learning objectives to topics to ensure users navigate through course materials while fulfilling specific course requirements and learning expectations.
You can also monitor class and user progress as students  work through course content by setting automatic (determined by the system) or manual (determined by the student ) completion tracking. 
Visual tour of the Classic Content Experience

Figure: The Classic Content tool interface.
Overview: When users access a course's Content tool for the first time, the first page they land on is the Overview. Use the Overview page to orient users to the course, content materials, and course expectations. If you decide not to add anything to this page, the Overview link and page is hidden from students'  view. Users can print and download an uploaded course syllabus directly from the Content Overview page. Note that the Print and Download buttons display differently, depending on whether or not the d2l.System.Services.DocumentConversion.IsEnabled configuration variable is enabled. If the d2l.System.Services.DocumentConversion.IsEnabled configuration variable is enabled, all document types except PDF will display the Download and Print options (PDF will only display the Download button). If the configuration variable is not enabled, only GIF, JPEB, JPG, JPE, PNG, BMP, TXT, HTML, CSS, and HTM file types will display both the Download and Print options.
Bookmarks: Topics you bookmark appear in a list on the Bookmarks page. The number beside the Bookmarks link indicates how many bookmarks you have. 
Course Schedule: Lists course material due dates, start dates, end dates, overdue course activities, and other course events for the next seven days. If you set availability dates or a due date for a course object, it appears in the Course Schedule page and the Agenda view in the Calendar tool. If you set a due date for a course activity that has no end date or it has an end date that occurs after the due date, the activity appears on the Overdue tab for students  who miss the due date. The Overdue tab lists overdue course activities that students  can still complete before the item or course becomes unavailable. The dates listed on this page are not exclusive to content topics; upcoming events include all events within the course from the Calendar tool. The number beside the Upcoming Events link indicates how many upcoming events you have.
Table of Contents: Lists all modules available in your course. The number beside each module name in the Table of Contents panel indicates the number of topics you have set completion tracking for. The number beside the Table of Contents link indicates the total number of topics you have set completion tracking for. Use the number totals to determine the task load being put on students  per module. 
Course content administration options: Located on the Table of Contents page, these options allow teachers  to import and copy course content, bulk Course Admin content properties, manage course files, view reports on course content, and restore deleted course items.
Visual tour of the New Content Experience (Lessons)
In the Lessons interface, the table of contents for the course is represented by a familiar tree structure, allowing you to easily organize and navigate course components (lessons, units, folders, and materials). 
Arrow icons display on tiles that contain additional course components, indicating the tiles can be expanded by clicking them. 
Hovering over a component displays a tool-tip. This is useful if the complete heading is too long to display in the table of contents.
Each material type displays a unique icon, making it easier to visually distinguish materials.

Figure: Overview of the New Content Experience (Lessons) interface.
Standards displays all content units and the learning standards they align to. The numbers in each column indicate the number of activities in a unit satisfying a standard.
New Unit adds a new unit to the course.
Course options provides options to Pace Course, Preview as a Student, and View Reports. Pacing (previously known as scheduling) suggests when to start teaching different course materials in chronologically sequenced content units.
Availability date and due date information displays in the table of contents next to each course component. The availability date indicates when the component will be visible to students , and the due date indicates when the activity should be completed.
The visibility toggle and icon indicate the status of units, lessons, and materials: Visible ( icon) or Hidden ( icon). Visibility status is also indicated by icons in the table of contents next to each unit. To change the visibility of a unit, lesson, or material, select the item and then click the visibility toggle at the top of the page.
Create New and Add Existing display full-screen pages with options for creating new materials, adding a new lesson, or inserting existing materials. 
When you click the (...) Options menu and select Edit for a unit, lesson, or folder, you can update its title, availability and due dates, and description. When you click the (...) Options menu and select Edit for materials, you can update their titles, properties, and dates.The (...) Options menu also allows you to view standards that align to a unit, lesson, or material; make units, lessons, and materials visible to or hidden from students ; organize materials using move and reorder features; and delete units, lessons, and materials. When you select course material in courses with Activity Feed on their homepage, the option to Post to Course Homepage is also available. Move to lets you move lessons, folders, and materials to a different unit. Reorder lets you organize lessons and materials within a unit. You can also use the drag and drop functionality in the table of contents to perform these actions. The selected tile displays handles indicating you can drag-and-drop the tile to rearrange it in the table of contents.
Video: New Content Experience (Lessons) Overview

Turn on the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can choose between the Classic Content Experience and the New Content Experience (Lessons) for your specific course.Note: Your administrator can turn the New Content Experience ON or OFF for all courses at the org level. However, your administrator can also assign your role the ability to switch between content experiences from your course. To complete the workflow below, your role must be assigned the required configuration variables. Contact your administrator for more information.To turn on the New Content Experience (Lessons) 
From your course navbar, click Content.
Click the arrow on the top to expand the window.

Figure: Click the arrow above your content.
Click Turn it on.

Figure: Click Turn it on to enable the New Content Experience (Lessons).
The New Content Experience (Lessons) is turned on for your course. If desired, you can repeat this process to turn off the New Content Experience and switch back to Classic Content.Note: The content experience is also turned on for all students .



--------------------------------------------------


About Announcements

Help boost engagement by scheduling announcements for frequent and regular communication to all students enrolled in a course. Students can set notification preferences to be made aware of important updates.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Announcements tool:
To see and use the Announcements tool, you must have the required Announcements permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Announcements tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Announcements tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Note: You can also use the Announcements widget to create and manage announcements for your course. Refer to the Create a welcome message using the Announcements widget topic for details. If you have the Homepage Widget Expansion pack, you can use the Slim Announcements widget to post a simplified, shorter version of announcements.
Visual tour of the Announcements tool
Once you have satisfied permission requirements and added the tool to your course navbar, select Announcements.

Figure: Overview of the Announcements tool interface.
When teachers land on the Announcements tool, the first page that they will see will display all announcements created within the course.
New Announcement: Create new course announcements.Note: The body of an announcement cannot have more than 1.5million characters.
More Actions: Reorder announcements, access notification settings, and restore deleted items.
Delete: Remove announcements from a course if they are no longer needed.
After clicking on the drop-down menu next to the title of an announcement, teachers are given the options to View, Edit,  Delete, or Copy the selected item, as well as Pin to top or Unpin the announcement to the top of the page as needed.
Video: Announcements Overview




--------------------------------------------------


About Assignments

You can use the Assignments tool to create and edit assignments, see users’ submission times,  view submissions on the Evaluate Submission page, associate assignments to rubrics and competencies, and return submissions with grades and feedback.
For assignments that included file submissions, you can download the submissions to your computer for review offline.
In the Submissions area for file and text submissions, you can view users' submissions and submission dates, eliminating the need to collect assignments and making it easy to track when files were submitted. 
You can create categories to group and organize assignments. You can also restrict access to assignments by date and time, group membership, or special access permissions. 
You can manage exemptions by launching the Manage Exemptions page from the following locations in Assignments: 
Requirements
The following are required to use the Assignments tool:
To see and use the Assignments tool, you must have the required Assignments permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Assignments tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important:  You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Assignments tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Note: You can also add existing assignments or create new assignments using the Content tool. Refer to Add and organize learning materials in the Classic Content experience or Add and organize learning materials in the New Content Experience (Lessons) for details.
Visual tour of the Assignments tool
Once you have satisfied permission requirements and added the tool to your course navbar, select Assignments.

Figure: Overview of the Assignments tool interface.
When  teachers navigate to Assignments, they will see all the assignments created within their course with options for creating new assignments and editing and evaluating previous ones.
New Assignment: Create a new assignment.
Edit Categories: Create or manage categories for your assignments. Categories are customizable and can be organized to designate work that corresponds to specific modules in your course.
More Actions: Provides additional options for Assignments:Preview: View a preview of any assignment.Reorder: Change the order and display of your assignments.Event Log: View a log of your created, deleted, and restored assignments.Make Visible to Users: Let students view an assignment.Hide from Users: Make an assignment invisible for students.Delete: Delete an assignment.
Bulk Edit: Edit one or more assignments all at once.
What file types are supported in Assignments?
The following file formats are supported for Assignment submissions:

Extension


File Type


Notes


HTM, HTML, MHT, MHTML


Web document


Brightspace strips the <title> tag and text within the tag from user created web documents


RTF, PPT, PPS, PDF, DOC, DOCX, PPTX, XML, XLS, TXT, WPD


Text document


 


JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIF, TIFF


Image


 


SWF, MPG, MPEG, RM, MP3, MP4, M4V, M4A, AVI, WAV, RAM, ASF, MOV, RA


Media


The extensions MP4, M4V, and M4A allow users to drag audio and visual files. 
Note: Media files cannot be directly played in the  Assignments document viewer; they must be downloaded and played using a media player.

Video: The New Assignments Creation Experience



--------------------------------------------------


About Quizzes

Build quizzes using varying question types. Create quizzes that randomly select questions from a question pool or that shuffle the order of questions.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Quizzes tool:
To see and use the Quizzes tool, you must have the required Quizzes permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Quizzes tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important:  You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Quizzes tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Visual tour of the Quizzes tool

Figure: Overview of the Quizzes tool interface.
The Quizzes tool page provides the following options:
Click the Question Library tab to create new quiz questions, or add existing questions.
Click the Statistics  tab to review user and quiz grade statistics.
Create a New Quiz.
Edit or create new quiz categories to help organize your quizzes.
Click More Actions to:Add a Learning ObjectReorder quizzes.Make quizzes visible to users.Hide quizzes from users.Delete or restore quizzes.
View quizzes by availability or assigned category.
Select multiple quizzes and click Bulk Edit to configure multiple quizzes.
Click the arrow to apply more actions to a quiz.
Video: New Quiz Experience



--------------------------------------------------


About Awards

The Awards tool enables you to provide merit-based awards to students. There are two types of awards: Badges, and Certificates.
Badges
Badges are awarded based on any criteria determined by you. They are meant to provide digital markers that represent accomplishment throughout a course or program. Badges do not contribute to achieving a passing grade; however, badges are awarded for achievements that also can contribute to the type of work ethic that results in a passing grade. For example, you might create a badge that is based on posting 15 discussion posts in the first month of a course, or on perfect attendance, or on academic excellence. These items are the types of trends that can help a student to succeed in a course or program. 
Certificates
Certificates are also awarded based on criteria determined by you. Certificates are similar to Badges, however, they include a PDF that users can print. Certificates typically indicate an official statement of certification or award at the end of a program, but can be awarded during the course for other criteria as well. Certificates can be awarded based on achieving a milestone that a student can use for further academic or career success, such as passing a practical exam. Certificates also do not contribute to achieving a passing grade.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Awards tool:
To see and use the Awards tool, you must have Awards permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Awards tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Awards tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Note: If you have the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack, you can also use the Awards Leaderboard widget to display the top 10 users who have earned badges (Awards) in the course.
Visual tour of the Awards tool
Once you have satisfied permission requirements and added the tool to your course navbar, select Awards.

Figure: Use the Classlist Awards tab of the Awards tool to issue and revoke awards.
Classlist Awards tab: Issue and revoke awards for students in your class.
Issue: Select a user from the list and select Issue to send them an award.
Revoke: Select a user from the list and select Revoke to take back an award.
Filter and sort the Classlist using the drop down options.
Filter Classlist by those awarded Badges or Certificates.

Figure: Use the Course Awards tab of the Awards tool to control the visibility of awards and add awards to your course.
Course Awards tab: Share awards and add awards to your course.
Select how  users in your course can share awards.
Add Award To Course: Choose from a list of awards created by your organization administrator. Note: If you want to create your own custom awards, contact your administrator to be granted the required role permissions.
Review all Certificates and Badges currently available in your course. Edit or remove the award if desired.




--------------------------------------------------


About Portfolio

Brightspace Portfolio is a tool that empowers students of all ages to independently capture evidence of learning. Students can maintain their digital portfolio year after year, as they progress through their learning journey.
With Brightspace Portfolio, you can:
Create student-centered digital portfolios
Use age-appropriate modes of the mobile app to collect evidence of learning
Document process and growth
Provide formative assessments and real-time feedback
Record audio and video reflections about a student's work
Use Brightspace Portfolio year-over-year to reflect a student's growth and showcase their work
Ensure student data is secure and private
Share evidence of learning with parents and guardians by using Brightspace Parent & Guardian
Note: Brightspace Portfolio is intended to replace the legacy Brightspace ePortfolio product. Combined with all Brightspace Core functionality, Brightspace Portfolio will provide a complete solution, to not only replace Brightspace ePortfolio, but to enhance the entire experience. To schedule a roadmap presentation with the D2L Product Management team, contact your Customer Success Manager or Technical Account Manager. 
D2L recommends that you do not use Brightspace Portfolio and Brightspace ePortfolio in the same Course Offering concurrently. 
Before you start
An administrator configures permissions and sets configuration variables in Brightspace that let you use Brightspace Portfolio in your organization and specify the workflow for submitting and approving evidence. For example, in a K-12 learning environment, submitted evidence is automatically shared with teachers and requires approval before the evidence displays in portfolios. In a higher education or corporate learning environment, submitted evidence immediately appears in student portfolios (no approval process). Teachers do not see evidence until students explicitly share it with them. 
If you have questions about whether your organization is set up to use Brightspace Portfolio or the workflow for submitting and approving evidence, contact your Brightspace administrator.
Note that on a device that is shared amongst several classrooms, an administrator might install the Brightspace Portfolio app on your shared device.
Brightspace Portfolio platform requirements
The Brightspace Portfolio app is available for download from any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®. The app is generally released at the beginning of the month, and then sometimes mid-month, if issues are found. Depending on how your device is configured, the app may update automatically or you may have to manually check for new versions.
Region and language support
Brightspace Portfolio is supported in the following geographic regions:
U.S.
Canada
                Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA)
Asia Pacific (Singapore and Australia)
Brightspace Portfolio is available for use in the following languages:
English (U.S.)
French (Canada)
Spanish	(Latin America)
Note: The Brightspace Portfolio app reflects the language preference selected on the user's device, not what is set in Brightspace.
Operating system support
Brightspace Portfolio is supported on tablets and mobile devices with the following operating systems:AndroidTM 5.0 or later on tablets or phonesiOS® 10.0 or later on iPhone® and iPad®Supported evidence types in Brightspace Portfolio
You can upload or view any evidence that is a PDF or can be converted to a PDF  in the Brightspace Portfolio web application. 
Supported file types
Video: SWF, MPG, MPEG, RM, MP3, MP4, M4V, M4A, AVI, WAV, RAM, ASF, MOV, RANote: There is no limit to the size of videos; however, they are naturally limited by the device's capacity and bandwidth.
Images: JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIF, TIFF
Text documents: RTF, PPT, PPS, PDF, DOC, DOCX, PPTX, XML, XLS, TXT, WPD, XLSX, XLS
Web documents: HTM, HTML, MHT, MHTML
External links to Google Drive
External links to Office 365
When downloading image evidence for viewing, the evidence is downloaded in the original file type and resolution. For example, if a student uploads a full resolution JPEG file, the image may adjust size and resolution in the Portfolio viewer; however, an teacher downloading the image downloads a full resolution JPEG file.



--------------------------------------------------


About Question Library

The Question Library is a central repository that stores and archives questions which you can reuse within a course. You can create multiple sections within the Question Library to organize your questions by type and topic, making it easier for you to find questions for your quizzes, surveys, and self assessments.
As a best practice for storage, organization, and easy access, we recommend that you create all your questions using the Question Library. You can also consolidate questions created within the Quizzes, Surveys, and Self Assessments tools by importing them back into the Question Library.
Requirements
To see and use the Question Library tool, you must have the required Question Collections (Question Library) permissions, as well as the related Quizzes, Survey or Self Assessments permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
Access the Question Library
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
From the tool navigation, click Question Library.

Figure: Accessing the Question Library from Quizzes.
Visual tour of the Question Library

Figure: Overview of the Question Library interface.
Easily organize and categorize your quiz questions with the Question Library. The collection of questions within of this tool allows teachers to efficiently reuse quiz questions in one course and helps save time when copying them over to other course offerings.
Preview all the sections within your Question Library.Sections can be thought of as folders where individual quiz questions can be grouped together.Sections can contain other sections and individual quiz questions. Clicking on the drop-down menu provides teachers with the ability to edit settings for the chosen section.
Click New to create a new section within the Question Library or a new quiz question. Click Import to add questions to the Question Library from either an external file or an existing quiz in Brightspace.
The Question Library admin bar provides teachers with several options:Move: move questions into sections or sections into other sections.Delete: delete questions or sections from the Question Library.Order: rearrange questions or sections within the Question Library.Edit Values: edit the number of points, the level of difficulty, or change the mandatory status of individual quiz questions.
                Teachers can click on the drop-down menu of individual quiz questions to edit and preview the item selected or to view the attempts made to the chosen question.
Video: Overview of the Question Library




--------------------------------------------------


About Rubrics

Use the Rubrics tool to create rubrics easily and efficiently within a course. You can associate rubrics with assessments and grade items; and during assessment, rubrics can standardize the evaluation of student work and facilitate the ability to provide feedback.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Rubrics tool:
To see and use the Rubrics tool, you must have the required Rubrics permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Rubrics tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important:  You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Rubrics tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Visual tour of the Rubrics tool

Figure: Tour of the Rubrics interface.
New Rubric: Create a new rubric for a course.
Actions: Perform any of the following actions by selecting them from the drop-down menu.Edit Options: Edit an existing rubric.Preview: See how a rubric appears to students.Set Status: Set a rubric's status as Draft, Published, or Archived. Draft: A rubric that is being created or in progress.Published: A rubric that is visible to students in your course.Archived: A rubric that is no longer visible but saved in Brightspace for you to view.View Statistics: View the statistics for your rubric. This includes activities related to submissions, associated competencies, and ePortfolio.Copy: Create a copy of a rubric.Delete: Remove a rubric from Brightspace.
Description: Lists the description for each rubric, if applicable.
Type: The type of rubric. For example, rubrics can be Analytic or Holistic.
Scoring Method: How a rubric is graded. The method can be No Score, Points, or Custom Points.
Status: Indicates the status of the rubric.
Notes:
To edit the Description, Type, and Scoring Method for a rubric, click Actions > Edit Options.
To edit the Status for a rubric, click Actions > Set Status.
About Rubric status options
Draft: The initial status of a rubric. Draft rubrics are not yet available for new associations.
Published: Associations can be made with published rubrics. Once a rubric has an association, you cannot change the rubric's name, description, levels, and criteria.
Archived: Archived rubrics do not appear in default search results and are not available for new associations. Existing associations with archived rubrics remain associated with activities that were previously created but they cannot be evaluated or updated. Students continue to see student-visible rubric evaluations on archived rubrics and their scores in activity summary, user progress, and Grades. Students do not see the Archived state tag, however, they can see evaluations and feedback provided using an archived status rubric. Note: Users with permission to change a rubric's status can do so at any time. If you change the status of a rubric to Archived, there are no effects on the alignment of rubrics to any assessment activities or previous evaluations that were completed using the rubric. Rubrics that are changed to an Archived status after the initial alignment to the activity continue to display and can be used for evaluation. The Archived tag that appears on rubric tiles in the activity creation and activity evaluation workflows provide information to teachers and course developers that a rubric previously aligned to an activity is now archived, and that it is not possible to add archived rubrics to assessment activities and new rubric alignments.
About Rubric types 
Analytic: Two-dimensional rubrics with levels of achievement as columns and assessment criteria as rows. Allows you to assess participants' achievements based on multiple criteria using a single rubric. You can assign different weights (value) to different criteria and include an overall achievement by totaling the criteria. With analytic rubrics, levels of achievement display in columns and your assessment criteria display in rows. Analytic rubrics may use a points, custom points, or text only scoring method. Points and custom points analytic rubrics may use both text and points to assess performance; with custom points, each criterion may be worth a different number of points. For both points and custom points, an Overall Score is provided based on the total number of points achieved. The Overall Score determines if students meet the criteria determined by teachers. You can manually override the Total and the Overall Score of the rubric.
Holistic: Single criterion rubrics (one-dimensional) used to assess students' overall achievement on an activity or item based on predefined achievement levels. Holistic rubrics may use a percentage or text only scoring method.
Scoring: Used to assess rubrics with textual performance levels such as Excellent, or with text and numeric score such as Excellent (90 points). There are several ways to score a rubric:
No Score: Performance levels indicated by text. For example, three performance levels for a rubric can be Poor, Good, and Excellent.
Points: This scoring method is only available to analytic rubrics. Performance levels are indicated by points. For example, three performance levels for a rubric can be Poor (0 points), Good (75 points), and Excellent (125 points).
Custom Points: This scoring method is only available to analytic rubrics. The Custom Points scoring method is similar to the Points scoring method, but you can customize the points given for each criterion. For example, if performance levels are Poor, Good, and Excellent, then the criterion Spelling and Grammar can be worth 0 points, 10 points, and 20 points for each level, and the criterion Expression can be worth 0 points, 30 points, and 60 points, making it worth three times the points of Spelling and Grammar.
Percentages: This scoring method is only available to holistic rubrics. A holistic rubric using Percentages can be automatically assessed based on the score of its associated item, for example, a Grade item.
Rubric visibility
You can control rubric visibility for learners. This is useful for preventing learners from using preview rubrics as answer keys for activities. For example, you can describe assessment expectations in assignment instructions, hiding the associated preview rubric. Once the assignment is graded, you release the graded rubric as part of the learner's assessment details. 
Rubric visibility is controlled in two ways:
Administrators can set the default visibility of new rubrics at the org unit level.
Instructors can set the visibility of individual rubrics. Creating or editing a rubric includes the following options: Rubric is always visible to learners, Rubric is hidden until feedback published, and Rubric is never visible to learners.
Note: If an instructor attempts to publish a partially completed rubric evaluation, the partial evaluation dialog appears. By default, the Continue Grading option is selected and the instructor can tap ENTER to return to the rubric, or tap Publish Anyway to continue to publish the partial evaluation. This workflow ensures that there is a verification layer to reconsider their action and help prevent instructors from unintentionally publishing incomplete evaluations. 
To indicate rubric visibility to instructors, rubrics that are hidden until feedback is published or rubrics that are never visible display an indicator in the Rubrics section of the associated activity. Visible rubrics do not display an indicator.
Note the following:
Feedback copied from hidden rubrics only displays for learners; it is not visible to instructors as they have access to the rubric. The visibility status of a rubric can only be changed at the rubric level, not at the activity level. For example, you cannot change the visibility of a rubric from an assignment.
Visibility is a property of a rubric and not an individual assessment. Rubric definitions and published feedback appear in the assessment tool where the rubric  is used. 
For individual and group discussions, an instructor assesses the rubric in the assess topic workflow. Upon saving the assessment, the rubric feedback is considered published.
Displaying rubric feedback in the Rubric experience
If you select the Rubric is visible to students, after the rubric feedback is published to the learner, they can see the rubric feedback and rubric definition on any page where the rubric is used. 
For individual and group assignments, an instructor assesses the rubric in the assignment assessment workflow. Upon publishing or updating the assessment, the rubric feedback is considered published. To make changes after publishing rubric feedback, you can edit your feedback while it remains published (allowing learners to view any updates as you make them), or you can retract the published feedback to remove the rubric from the learner's view and then publish it again. 
If you select Rubric is hidden from students, learners do not see rubrics or rubric feedback. However, if you select Include rubric feedback in overall feedback, the learner can see any feedback provided on the rubric as part of the criterion level feedback for the activity under the Overall Feedback heading in the Assignment tool and the Grade Tool. In the Learner's view, the rubric criterion title and description appear above each feedback item.
Note: The Include rubric feedback in overall feedback option should be selected when the rubric is attached to an activity or before the rubric is evaluated. This option cannot be turned on after there is an assessment against the rubric. 
If you select Rubric is hidden from students until feedback is published, learners can see both the rubric and the feedback only after the feedback is published.
Displaying graded rubric feedback in Gradebook
Instructors and learners can see the rubric associated with an activity from Gradebook. For example, if a rubric is attached to a discussion and you evaluate the rubric in Discussions, the results of the rubric are visible to the learner from the associated grade.
You can assess discussions or  assignments from the corresponding tool, and the completed rubric displays in its entirety in the Gradebook (if the activity has a linked grade).
D2L recommends the following best practices:
You should only associate a rubric with the activity being assessed. Grade items that have rubrics directly associated with them cannot be linked to activities. However, activities with associated rubrics can be linked to grade items.
Grade items that are considered independent and intended for offline grade or observational activities can continue to use rubrics. However, they cannot be associated with activities.




--------------------------------------------------


About Discussions

Use the Discussions tool in your course to encourage users to share thoughts on course material with their peers. You can set up forums and topics for users to ask questions, discuss course content and assignments, and work together in assigned groups and sections.
 Note: When copying and pasting formatted content from other sources, the Brightspace Editor in the Discussions tool contains some limitations. For example, if you copy content from a document with APA formatting and paste it into a discussion thread, the formatting is not preserved. As a best practice for submitting assignments, D2L recommends using the Assignments tool. If you choose to use the Discussions tool, D2L recommends submitting documents as attachments in the tool, which preserves document formatting. 
Requirements
The following are required to use the Discussions tool:
To see and use the Discussions tool, you must have the required Discussions permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Discussions tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Discussions tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Visual tour of the Discussions tool
There are five key points of navigation in the Discussions tool to help you create and manage discussions in your course.

Figure: Overview of the Discussions tool interface.
Discussions List: Displays an overview of forum topics. Click the topic link to view threads in that topic, or click the drop-down button beside the topic for more options.
Subscriptions: Set your default notification method for the discussion items you are subscribed to. You can also use the Change your notification settings link to update your contact methods, summary of activity, and what method is used to receive instant notifications for various tools and features.
Group and Section Restrictions: Set restrictions for individual sections. You can also set restrictions for individual students within a group or section.
Statistics: An overview of the activity levels in your Discussions. This area is divided into two tabs: User and Forum and Topics. Org Unit Statistics are displayed on either tab.
Settings: Configure your personal display options, org unit (course) settings, and the default settings for availability conditions.
Video: Overview of the grid view in the Discussions tool




--------------------------------------------------


About Grades

The Grades tool provides a series of features to create and manage your grade book. By leveraging these features, Brightspace offers a flexible and powerful gradebook that removes technical barriers and empowers users to teach and assess however it makes sense for their courses.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Grades tool:
To see and use the Grades tool, you must have the required Grades permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Grades tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Grades tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Visual tour of the Grades tool
There are five key points of navigation in the Grades tool to help you create and manage your grade book.

Figure: Overview of the Grades tool interface.
Enter Grades: Review your student's grades, import and export your grade book to Microsoft Excel or into a .CSV format, grade student submissions, and manually enter or override grades.  For more information, refer to Enter Grades in the Grades Tool.
Manage Grades: Create new grade categories and grade items.  For more information,  refer to Manage Grades in the Grades tool.
Schemes: View, create, and edit grading schemes that have been shared from a higher level in your organization.
Setup Wizard: A seven-step setup wizard to help guide you to set up your initial grade book configuration. For more information,  refer to Set up your Grade Book.
Settings: Configure your personal display options, org unit (course) display options, and calculation options. For more information, refer to Define Settings in Grades tool.
Video: Overview of the Grades tool




--------------------------------------------------


About Classlist

Classlist is a tool that allows you to add or remove course participants, change students' roles, create new students, and import students from a TXT or CSV file. 
Use the Classlist tool to view who is enrolled in your course, send email messages or instant messages, view shared locker files, and read. You can also view the awards you have granted to students in the  course. 
Requirements
The following are required to use the Classlist tool:
To see and use the Classlist tool, you must have the required Classlist permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Class Progress tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Calendar tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Visual tour of the Classlist tool
When you navigate to Classlist, you can see all course participants and perform the following actions:

Figure: Overview of the Classlist interface.
Add participants: Add existing users or create and enroll a new student.
Enrolment Statistics: See all course enrollments and withdrawals.
Email Classlist: Select groups or students to send messages to.
View By: Filter your Classlist view by displaying participants by individual user or course groups/sections.
Search For...: Search for students or groups in your Classlist. To see all available search parameters, click Show Search Options.
More Actions: Select a student or a group of students and do one of the following:Email: Sent an email message to the selected students.Instant message: Sent a message to the selected students.Print: Print the list of selected students or groups.Enrollment: Enroll the list of selected students or groups.Unenroll: Unenroll the list of selected students or groups.
Number of records per page: Select the number of students that displays on the page (10; 20; 50; 100; 200)
Video: Overview of the Classlist tool




--------------------------------------------------


About Class Progress

The Class Progress tool tracks your students' overall progress as a course and individually.
You may want to use the Class Progress tool to do any of the following:
Monitor progress for any or all users in your course
Prepare progress reports
View user profiles, email users, or instant message users
Track when a user accesses the course and downloads course content
Track a user's grades, completion of learning objectives, access of content topics, participation in discussions, assignment submissions, quiz submissions, checklist completion, survey responses, login history, and system access.
Set up intelligent Agents for students who are falling behind in a course
View feedback and submissions for assignments, discussion topics, and other assessments for individual students
For content, the content must meet three criteria to be included in the student's progress:
The student must have access to the content
The content must be marked with a completion method of Required Automatic or Required Manual
The content is not exempt
When content does not meet these conditions, the topics are not included in the calculation of the student's  progress.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Class Progress tool:
To see and use the Class Progress tool, you must have Class Progress permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Class Progress tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Calendar tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Visual tour of the Class Progress tool
From the navbar, select Class Progress. 

Figure: Overview of the Class Progress interface.
You can filter class participants based on membership in groups or sections.
Use the Class Progress navbar to sort the order in which users appear in the chart. By default, the following performance indicators appear from left to right in the navbar: Content Completed, Objectives, Logins, and Grades. A maximum of 4 performance indicators can display at any time on the Class Progress page. Available indicators include: Content Completed, Objectives, Assignment Submissions, Grades, Checklist Completion, Content Visited, Discussion Participation, Login History, Predicted Grade (for Student Success System users only), Quiz Performance, Survey completion, and System Access.Login History indicates when the student logged into Brightspace, not the course. However, if the Brightspace Data Platform is enabled, Course Logins displays in each student's User Progress report, which reports on when they accessed the course.System Access indicates each time the student accesses Brightspace using a browser, or launches the Pulse app. System access begins when the user logs in, launches the app, or returns after 30 minutes of inactivity. It ends after 30 minutes of inactivity.Absent period indicates the number of days since the student last logged into Brightspace. For example, if "Oct 30, 3017 - absent period: 3" displays, the student did not log in for 3 days, and an Oct 26 login displays below the Oct 30 login.
All course participants appear in the chart. Their name, username, and Org Defined ID display alongside their profile picture, if supplied. Their performance results for the listed indicators also display in the chart. Clicking on any area of this chart brings you to the individual user's User Progress page.
To adjust which performance indicators are displayed and which order they are displayed in, click Settings. You can also search for users by typing in the Search users field.
Video: Overview of the Class Progress tool




--------------------------------------------------


About Media Library

Media Library offers a media processing, storage, and streaming option for all audio-video materials. Use Media Library to create, view, edit, and manage all your audio-video content.  Important: The Media Library repository holds all media files uploaded using  Record Audio, Record Video, Video Note, the Content tool, Lessons, or Capture App (Creator+ only). To access and use Media Library, ensure that your role has been granted the Can Access Media Library Management Tool and the Can Manage Objects permissions as part of the Content Service permission category.
Visual tour of Media Library

Figure: Overview of the Medial Library.
The Media Library provides the following options:
Click Add to upload a media file or record a webcam.Note: Create Presentation and the Capture App are only available with a Creator+ subscription and the Can Access Capture App permission.
Filter content based upon audio-video type. More than one filter can be used. Filters include:Ownership: Filter by the owner of the  audio-visual (AV) content (administrators only).Note: The owner of AV content is the person who initially uploaded or added the content or a user that has been assigned ownership of the content by an administrator.Content Type: Filter by either audio or video content type.Source: Filter by where content was added from. Multiple filters can be selected:Content: Filter by AV content uploaded from the Content tool and Lessons.Media Library: Filter by AV content uploaded or created in Media Library.Audio or Video Note: Filter by content created using Audio and Video Note.Capture App: Filter by content created and published using the Capture App.Note: The Capture App is accessible when using Create Presentation in Media Library and is only available as part of Creator+.Imported: Filter by content added from course imports.Other: Filter by content added prior to the addition of source tracking.Date Modified: Filter by date modified. This changes to Date Deleted on the Recycle Bin screen.Date Created
Search for all content in the Media Library repository.
Click a checkbox to select multiple audio-video options. Click options ( ... ) next to Modified to delete selected content.
Click  options (...) to:Preview content.Download audio-video content to a device.Edit video timelines, add chapters, and create manual or automated captions using the editor.Rename content and Edit Description.Transfer Ownership of audio-video content (administrator only).Delete content.
Visual tour of Media Library with Capture

Figure: Overview of the Medial Library with Capture interface.
Upload File: Opens the file select dialog on your personal device to let you search for and add an existing file.
Create Recording: Directs you to the New Recording page to begin creating your presentation.
Filter content based upon audio-video type. More than one filter can be used. Filters include:
Ownership: Filter by the owner of the  audio-visual (AV) content (administrators only).Note: The owner of AV content is the person who initially uploaded or added the content or a user that has been assigned ownership of the content by an administrator.
Content Type: Filter by either audio or video content type.
Source: Filter by where content was added from. Multiple filters can be selected:Content: Filter by AV content uploaded from the Content tool and Lessons.Media Library: Filter by AV content uploaded or created in Media Library.Audio or Video Note: Filter by content created using Audio and Video Note.Capture App: Filter by content created and published using Capture.Note: The Capture App is accessible when using Create Presentation in Media Library and is only available as part of Creator+.Imported: Filter by content added from course imports.Other: Filter by content added prior to the addition of source tracking.
Search for all content in the Media Library repository.
Click  options (...) to:
Preview content.
Download audio-video content to a device.
Edit video timelines, add chapters, and create manual or automated captions using the editor.
Rename content and Edit Description.
Transfer Ownership of audio-video content (administrator only).
Delete content.
Click a check box to select multiple audio-video options. Click options ( ... ) next to Modified to delete selected content.
Video: Overview of the Media Library




--------------------------------------------------


About Calendar

Display all upcoming events to students in one spot. Post events such as project due dates, office hours, in-class events ,and more to the calendar.
Requirements
The following are required to use the Calendar tool:
To see and use the Calendar tool, you must have the required Calendar permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To add the Calendar tool to your course navbar, you must have the required Navbar permissions applied to your role. For more information about how to add a tool or link to your course navbar, refer to the Customize your course navbar topic. 
Important: You can also locate available course tools by navigating to Course Admin from your navbar. If you cannot find the Calendar tool in your Brightspace instance, contact your organization administrator to obtain required permissions. 
Note: You can also present calendar information on your course home page using the Calendar widget. Refer to the Create a widget-based homepage topic to learn about how to add widgets to your course home page.
Visual tour of the Calendar tool
Once you have satisfied permission requirements and added the tool to your course navbar, select Calendar.

Figure: Overview of the Calendar tool interface.
 Access the following features:
Use the calendar views area to toggle between different event display layouts. Use the Agenda view to group your course events by Date, Course, or Category - events display in chronological order, and all-day events display at the top of each grouped listing. Use the Day, Week, and Month views to group your events in daily, weekly, or monthly increments. Use the List view to filter your events by Assignments, Checklists, Discussions, Grades, Materials, Modules, Quizzes, and Surveys. 
Use the calendar content area to navigate through your content. Navigation varies depending on the view you select.
Use the calendar menu to select multiple calendars to display, change the color scheme associated with individual calendars, and add new calendars. 
Use the mini calendar to navigate quickly to a specific day, week, or month. 
Use the task pane to create, track, and maintain personal tasks. 




--------------------------------------------------


Email others using the Email tool

You can communicate with your students  in Brightspace using the Email tool.
To email others using the Email tool
From your course homepage, click the Message Alerts icon and then click Email.Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
Compose your message and add any attachments (if applicable).Figure: Compose your message by filling out the email fields.Note: The email message, attachments, and the number of recipients in the To, CC, and BCC fields count towards the email message size and cannot exceed 20MB. 
Click Send.
Add and edit an email signature
Add an email signature to your emails to ensure that every message is personal and consistent.
To add an email signature
On your organizational or course homepage, click the Message alerts icon and click Email.

Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
On the Compose New Message page, click Settings.

Figure: Click the Settings button in the Email tool.
On the Email Settings page, in the Email Signature field, create your signature using Brightspace Editor.Note: The Email Signature field has a maximum character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: Use Brightspace Editor to create your email signature.
Click Save.
You have created and added your email signature. Your signature appears at the bottom of the field when you compose a new message.
To edit an email signature
On your organizational or course homepage, click the Message alerts icon and click Email.

Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
On the Compose New Message page, click Settings.

Figure: Click the Settings button in the Email tool.
On the Email Settings page, in the Email Signature field, change your signature using Brightspace Editor.

Figure: Use Brightspace Editor to change your email signature.
Click Save.
You have edited your email signature.
FAQ: How do I see the emails I have sent?
To view your sent emails
From your course homepage, click the Message Alerts icon and then click Email.Figure: Click the Message alerts icon and then click the Email button.
Click Sent Mail.Figure: Click Sent Mail to view your sent emails.
You can now view your sent emails.




--------------------------------------------------


Review your Classlist

Your Classlist is a directory of names, emails and group settings which provides you with quick access to a full list of the participants in your course. Note: For general information about the Classlist tool, refer to About Classlist.
Flag a user in a Classlist
You can flag specific users from the Classlist. This enables you to search for flagged users using  Search Options.
To flag a user in a Classlist
On the navbar, click Classlist.
In the Image column, click the flag icon next to the image of the user you want to flag.Figure: Click the Flag icon next to a user on the Classlist page to flag a user.
To search for and sort the classlist by flagged or unflagged users only, do the following:Figure: Click the checkbox and select Flagged or Unflagged to limit your search to select users. Click Show Search Options and click to enable the checkbox under Flagged.Select Flagged or Unflagged from the dropdown menu.
Click Search to update the classlist.
Your classlist is filtered by flagged or unflagged users.
Send Brightspace emails to your classlist
You can email students directly from the Classlist tool. You have the option to send messages to:
individual students 
multiple students , or
all students .
To send an email from the Classlist tool
From your course navbar, click Classlist.
To email an individual student:From the context menu of the student  that you want to contact, click Send Email.Figure: Select Send Email from the action menu of an individual user.
To email multiple students:Select the check boxes to the left of every student  that you want to email, then click Email.
Figure: Select multiple users to send an email to.
To email all students  in your course:Click the Select All checkbox at the top of your Classlist table, then click Email.
Figure: The Send Email page for all students .To only email students  with accommodations, set your search filter to only display learners with accommodations:On the Email Classlist page, click Show Search Options.Select the Users with Accommodations check box.In the Search for text box, click the search icon.
Click Send Email.
Compose your message and add any attachments (if applicable).
Click Send.
Your email is sent to students .
Add an existing user to the classlist
Add a user that already exists in Brightspace to your classlist.
To add an existing user to your classlist
Navigate to Classlist.
Click Add Participants and select Add existing users.
From the Add Existing Users page, do the following:Figure: Use the Add Existing Users page to add a user to your Classlist.Under Enrollment Options, from the Set all roles to drop-down list, select the role you want to assign the user you are adding to the Classlist.To send the user an enrollment email, select the Send Enrollment email check box.Under Add Existing Users, in the Search field, enter the name of the user you want to add.Click Show Search Options, specify the following options, and then click the Search icon:Click Show Search Options and specify the following options:Search In - Select the First Name, Last Name, and Org Defined ID check boxes.Enrollment - To set the search filter to filter out users already enrolled in the course, deselect the Include Users already enrolled in org unit check box.Search Type - select Starts With, Exact Match, or Contains. Selecting Starts With or Exact Match narrows your search and improves the speed at which your search results are displayed.In the search results list, select the check box alongside the name of the user you want to add, and then select the appropriate role for the user.
Click Enroll Selected Users.
Click Done.
The selected existing users are added to your course classlist.
Enroll a new user
You can also create and add a new user to your course classlist.
To enroll a new user
Navigate to Classlist.
From the Add Participants drop-down menu, select Create and enroll a new user.
From the Create and Enroll a New User page, enter in all user details.Figure: Enter user details from the Create and Enroll a New User page.
If you want to send the user an enrollment email, select the Send Enrollment email check box.
Click Enroll.
A new user is created and enrolled into your classlist.
Video: How to enroll a new user

View user accommodations
You can view users' accommodations from the Classlist tool.Note: You must be granted required role permissions to view user accommodations. Contact your administrator for details.
To view user accommodations
Navigate to Classlist.
Click on the context menu of the student  whose quiz accommodations you want to view, and then click View Accommodations.Figure: Review all accommodations granted to a specific user from the View Accommodations dialog box in Classlist.
Click Done to close.
Edit user accommodations
 Add new student  accommodations or edit existing accommodations from the Classlist tool.
 Note: You must be granted required role permissions to view and edit user accommodations. Contact your administrator for details.
To edit user accommodations
Navigate to Classlist.
Click on the context menu of the student  whose quiz accommodations you want to view, and then click Edit Accommodations.Figure: Use the Edit Accommodations dialog box to edit accommodations granted to a user.
Under Timing, do the following:Select Modify Time Limit and choose to either increase the original quiz time by a factor, or add extra time in minutes.
Click Save.
Accommodations are updated and saved for the selected user.
Unenroll users
You can unenroll (delete) users who are no longer enrolled in your course through the Classlist tool.Note: You must have the required role permissions to unenroll users. Contact your administrator for more information.
To unenroll users
From the course navbar, click Classlist.
Select the users you want to unenroll and click Unenroll.Figure: Select the users you want to unenroll and click Unenroll.
Click Yes to confirm.
The selected users are unenrolled from your course classlist.
Impersonate a user
You can impersonate another user from the Classlist tool. For example, you can impersonate a user when submitting a quiz on their behalf. 
Note: You must have the required role permissions granted to your role to impersonate another user. Contact your administrator for more details. While impersonating another user, you are restricted from using the Google Workspace integration or viewing the Google Workspace Widget.
To impersonate a user
Navigate to Classlist.
From the context menu of the user you want to impersonate, click Impersonate.
Click Yes to confirm.
You have assumed the role of the selected user, including their role permissions.
To stop impersonating a user
 Click your profile picture and click the X next to the user's name.Figure: Click X to stop impersonating a user.
You are no longer impersonating the selected user.
Video: Impersonate a user

View progress from the classlist
You can access the Class Progress tool from your classlist. The Class Progress tool helps you review a student's  grades, learning objectives, as well as their participation in course activities such as discussions.Note: Your view of the Class Progress tool may differ depending on whether you access the Class Progress tool from the org level or the org unit level, as well as depending on your roles and permissions. Contact your administrator for more details.
To check user progress
Navigate to Classlist.
From the context menu of the user you want to view, click View progress.Note: If the user has any quiz-specific accommodations, the accommodations icon appears alongside the Quizzes progress indicator.Figure: Use the Progress Summary page to review the accommodations next to each activity, signified by the Accommodations icon.
To view progress on a specific progress indicator, click the indicator on the left pane. The report details display.
Click the expandable and collapsible links to expand or collapse the report details.
Organize your classlist with tabs
Use tabs on your classlist to  show all roles, one role, or a combination of roles. The tabs you choose to display are visible to students when they view your classlist. If there is a role that you do not want students to see in the classlist, you can choose to not have it appear there.
Note: You must be granted required role permissions to organize your Classlist with tabs.  Contact your administrator for details. 
To display tabs on your classlist
Navigate to Classlist.
On the Classlist page, click Settings.
From the drop-down list in the Display column, select Yes or No for the tab you want to show or hide on your classlist page.
Click Save.
Your classlist displays with tabs based upon your saved settings.
Add or remove  auditors
You can add parents as an auditor from the classlist. Parents added auditors of their child can view their child's information in the Class Progress tool for a specific course offering. Auditors can also view:
The Grades tool
Quizzes activity
Discussions activity
Content viewing activity
Assignments activity
Login history
Checklist completion
Competencies achievement
Note: You must be granted the required role permissions to add parents as auditors of a student . Contact your administrator for details.
To add an auditor
Navigate to Classlist.
On the Classlist page, from the context menu of the user you want to assign auditors to, click  Manage User Auditors.Figure: Use the Manage Auditors page to assign auditors to a specific user.Note: You can also make the selected user an auditor of another user by clicking the Users [user name] audits tab and clicking Add Users to Audit.
To add or remove auditors, click Add Auditors.Figure: Add or remove auditors from the Add Auditors dialog
Click Add and then click Add again to confirm.
The selected user is added as an auditor of the specified student . To remove an auditor, click the context menu next to the auditor's name and click Delete.
To add or delete multiple auditors with a CSV file
From the Manage Auditors page, click Bulk Auditor Management.Figure: Use the Bulk Auditor Management page upload a list of auditors.
Follow the instructions included on this page to upload a file and click Continue.
Follow the prompts to complete the process.
Print a Classlist
You can print a list of learners in your classlist. The print out contains the learner's Image, Last Name, First Name, Org Defined ID, Role, and Last Accessed date and time.
To print a Classlist
On the course home page, click Classlist.
To print a list containing multiple learners, select the check boxes for every learner you want to print, and then click Print. The Print Classlist dialog box appears and displays the information you are printing.
Click Print.
To print the entire Classlist, click Print at the top of the page. The Print Classlist page appears.
Click Print. 
To print only a list of learners with accommodations, click Print and set your search filter to only display learners with accommodations:On the Print Classlist page, click Show Search Options. Select the Users with Accommodations check box, In the Search for text box, click the search icon.
Click Print. The Print Classlist dialog appears.
Click Print and select your printer.
Click Print.




--------------------------------------------------


Set up the Activity Feed widget and post

The Activity Feed widget is a course homepage widget that provides a central location for you and your students to post messages that are visible to the entire class. For example, you might post reminders about upcoming assignments and links to course materials.
Requirements
To see and use the Activity Feed and other widgets, you must have the required Homepages permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed by you organization administrator.
Add the Activity Feed widget to your homepage
The first step in using the Activity Feed widget is to add it to your course homepage. 
To add the Activity feed widget to your course homepage
From your course navbar click  Course Admin and then click Homepages.Figure: The Course Administration menu with the Homepages option visible.
Click the  homepage that you want to add the widget to.
In the Widgets section, click Add Widgets.Figure: Add Widgets option in the Widgets section.
 Search for the Activity Feed widget and click Add.Figure: The Activity Feed option in the Add Widgets section.
To access the properties for Activity Feed, click on the Activity Feed widget.
To hide the widget title and prevent users from expanding and collapsing the widget, deselect the Display a title option and select the Prohibit minimizing widget option, respectively.Figure: The Prohibit minimizing widget and Display a title options in Properties for Activity Feed.
Click Save and Close.
Use the Active Homepage drop-down menu to select the updated homepage and click Apply.Figure: The Active Homepage drop-down menu with the Apply option.
Video: How to add Activity Feed to a course homepage

Create a post with Activity Feed
Add posts, which can include audio-video content and new assignments, to your course homepage.
To create an activity feed post
In the Activity Feed widget on your course homepage, click the Create a post textbox.Figure: The Activity Feed widget on a course homepage.
 To create a message, click the Message tab and enter your message. Figure: Creating a message in the Activity Feed widget.
Optionally, add an attachment by doing one of the following:
To attach a web link or embed code, copy and paste the link or embed code in the message.
Click the attach icon, and do one or more of the following:To upload a file from your computer, click the file upload icon.To attach a link to course materials, click the  existing activity icon.To attach a web link, click the  weblink icon.To attach a link to a Google Drive file from your Google account, click the  Google Drive icon.Note: Before attaching the link, ensure that the file has proper visibility permissions in Google Drive.To attach a link to a OneDrive file from your OneDrive account, click the  OneDrive icon.Note: Before attaching the link, ensure that the file has proper visibility permissions in OneDrive.To insert videos external videos, like from YouTube, click the video icon and add a URL.Note: Activity Feed does not store attachments; it only stores a link to the attachment. Files uploaded on a post are stored in the Manage Files area of a course. All other attachments, like an attachment of a OneDrive link, Google Drive link, Quicklink, or YouTube video, are only links to items that are elsewhere and, therefore, are not stored as files.
If your course includes sections, use the Send To drop-down menu to select which section(s) you want to receive the post.Note: You must be enrolled in each section of a course you plan to communicate with or send posts to.
Click Post.Figure: A completed post in the Activity Feed widget.
Your message and attachments are added to the Activity Feed widget on your course homepage.
Video: How to add attachments and links to posts

Video: Optimize Posts

About assignment posts in Activity Feed
Instructors can use the Activity Feed to create new assignments and post them directly to their course homepage. The simplified assignment creation process allows you to set a name, instructions,  due date, and the option to add the assignment to grades. If your course includes sections, you can create section restricted assignments directly from Activity Feed. Instructors must be enrolled in each sections of a course they plan to communicate with  or send posts to. 
Instructors can also choose from four different submission types: file submissions, text submissions, on paper submissions, and observed in person assignments. On paper submissions and observed in person assignments have additional completion type options that are set when the assignment is created. These assignments can be marked as completed manually by learners, automatically on evaluation, or automatically on due date. Files can be uploaded and attached to the assignment post to provide additional details to learners. For file based submissions, instructors can view how many submissions have been made to the assignment directly from the Activity Feed post, and access the submissions from the Activity Feed with a single click.
Pin post to top of feed
Bring attention to an Activity Feed post by pinning it to the top of the feed. If you have a reminder or announcement for learners, this is an easy place to make it visible.
To pin or unpin a post
Locate the post you would like to pin in your Activity Feed.
Click Options, and select Pin Post to Top.

Figure: The Options menu for a post showing the Pin Post to Top option.
To unpin a post, click Options, and select Unpin Post or click the pin icon.

Figure: The Options menu showing the Unpin Post option. The pin icon is also visible.
Note: Multiple posts can be pinned to the top of your feed.
Schedule Activity Feed posts
Scheduling Activity Feed posts for a later time lets you create assignment posts and other important messages about coursework and other events in your course. You can ensure that learners are notified of due dates and events before they happen.
To schedule Activity Feed posts that you would like to make visible at a future date and time
From your course homepage, in the Activity Feed, click Create a post.
Choose the type of post and enter the required information.
Click Post Later. 

Figure: The Post Later option in the Activity Feed widget.
In the Post Later dialog, select a date and time.

Figure: The Post Later dialog.
Click Schedule Post.
Note: Scheduled posts are not visible to users until the scheduled date and time is reached. Planned assignments are hidden from users until the scheduled date and time is reached. Previously-scheduled posts can be modified by clicking on the View Planned Post link. Planned posts are removed from the planned post list once live in Activity Feed.

Figure: The View Planned Post option in the Activity Feed widget.
Video: Schedule Activity Feed posts

Remove posts
In the Activity Feed widget, in the post you want to delete, click Options > Delete Assignment or Delete Message.

Figure: The Options menu for an assignment post showing the Delete Assignment option.
Receive Activity Feed instant notifications
Instructors can choose to receive instant notifications when new comments are added to their posts. Learners can choose to receive instant notifications when new posts are created in a course they are enrolled in. Instant notifications are sent by email or SMS.
To receive Activity Feed instant notifications
From the minibar, click your name and select Notifications.

Figure: The Notifications option on the minibar.
Under Instant Notifications, select the desired delivery method for the available Activity Feed options: 
Activity Feed- new comments from others on a post
Activity Feed - new posts created by others
            Figure: The Instant Notifications options for Activity Feed.
Click Save.
Note: Activity Feed posts and comment notifications are not included in daily summary emails.
Video: Receive Activity Feed instant notifications




--------------------------------------------------


Create a welcome message using the Announcements widget

The Announcements widget can help you to boost engagement by scheduling announcements for frequent and regular communication to all students enrolled in a course. Students  can set notification preferences to be made aware of important updates.
Note: For more information about the Announcements tool refer to About Announcements. For more information about how to add the Announcements widget to your course homepage, refer to Create a widget-based homepage.
Use the Announcements widget to create a welcome message for your students. 
To create an announcement using the Announcements widget
From your Course Homepage, locate the Announcements widget.
Click the drop-down menu next to Announcements.
Click New Announcement.Figure: Click New Announcements from the Announcements drop-down menu.
Add a Headline and Content for your announcement.Figure: The General dialog enables you to enter the Headline and Content of your announcement.Note: Both Headline and Content are required to create an announcement. Optional settings include Availability, Attachments, and Additional Release Conditions.
Do one of the following:Click Publish to publish the announcement to your course.Click Save as Draft to save your progress and return later to publish your announcement.Click Cancel to remove your draft announcement. Figure: You can Publish your announcement, Save as Draft, or Cancel and discard your changes.
Your announcement is posted to the Announcements widget and available to students  from the course homepage.
Edit an Announcement
You can edit the content of announcements to ensure the information remains accurate. 
To edit an announcement
From the Announcements widget, click the context menu and select Go to Announcements Tool.Figure: The Go to Announcements Tool option of the Announcements widget.
On the Announcements page, click the Announcement that you want to edit.
From the Edit Announcement page, edit your announcement details.Important: To inform users of major changes and updates to postings that they might have dismissed, ensuring that those headlines reappear with current information, select the Major edit - send a notification and restore it for those who dismissed it check box. You can also make the edited Announcements posting reappear at the top of the Announcements widget by changing the start date to the current date and time.Figure: The Major edit check box.
Click Update.
Your announcement is updated and appears on the Announcements widget of the course homepage.
Pin an announcement to the top
You can pin an announcement to the top of the page to ensure that it is easily seen by students.
To pin an announcement
From the Announcements widget, click the context menu and select Go to Announcements Tool.
From the drop-down menu beside the announcement you want to pin, click Pin to top.Figure: Select Pin to top from the drop-down menu to pin this announcement.Figure: Pinned announcements are indicated with the Pinned icon.
Unpin an announcement
You can unpin an announcement to change the order the announcements appear in the Announcements widget and tool. 
To unpin an announcement
From the Announcements widget, click the context menu and select Go to Announcements Tool.
From the drop-down menu beside the announcement you want to unpin, click Unpin.Figure: Select Unpin from the drop-down menu to remove an announcement from the top of the page.
Your announcement is now unpinned from the top of the Announcements widget and tool. 
Delete and restore announcements
Delete announcements or restore a deleted announcement from the Announcements tool.
Note: To delete or restore an announcement requires the Add/Edit/Delete Announcements permission. Contact your administrator if your role has not been assigned this permission.
To delete an announcement
From the Announcements widget, click the context menu and select Go to Announcements Tool.
Select any announcements you want to delete and click Delete.Figure: The Delete button on the announcements page.
Click Yes to confirm the deletion.
The selected announcements are deleted.
To restore a deleted announcement
From the Announcements page, click More Actions and select Restore.Figure: The Restore button on the Restore Announcements page.
Select the announcements you want to restore and click Restore.
The announcements are restored and available on the course home page.
Video: How to delete and restore Announcements 

Copy an announcement
Use an existing announcement as a starting point by copying it and editing details.
To copy an existing announcement
From the Announcements widget, click the context menu and select Go to Announcements Tool.
Click the context menu next to the announcement you want to copy, and select Copy.
In the Edit Announcements page, the following items are copied over from the original Announcement:Figure: The Edit Announcements page for the copied announcement.Headline, with "Copy of " appended to the frontContentShow Start Date settingAttachmentsRelease conditions
 					If you want to hide your headline's date and time, clear the Always show start date check box. By default, an Announcements item start date and time appears below the headline when displayed in the Announcements widget.
In the Start Date and End Date fields, select the posting availability date. Announcements items publish immediately, unless you specify an alternate start date from Start Date. Note: Post-dated Announcements items do not display in the Announcements widget even if users have permission to see future Announcements items. They can be found within the list of Announcements items on the Announcements page.
You can remove an Announcements item on a specific date by selecting the Remove Announcements item based on end date check box. You and administrators can still see the Announcements item after its end date, but it does not appear in the Announcements widget. 
To include additional release conditions, click Attach Existing or Create and Attach.
To continue editing the Announcements item, click Save as Draft. Students  cannot see draft Announcements items
Click Publish.
The announcement is copied.
Copy an announcement to other courses
If you have the appropriate permissions, you can copy announcements from one course to other courses  from the context menu of an announcement. You can select the following options when copying announcements: 
Copy announcements to other courses in draft state, so you can publish the announcement content from within the destination course later.
Publish copied announcements  at the same time you copy it, bypassing the draft stage. 
Note: You must be enrolled in the course you copy from and the courses you copy to. 
The following attributes are copied:
Headline
Display Author Information
ContentNote: The copied Content attribute includes any associated files such as inserted images.
Start and End Date
Attachments
Pin state
 Release conditions are not copied.
To copy an announcement to other courses
Click Copy to Other Courses from the announcement drop-down menu.Figure: Copy to Other Courses appears in the announcement drop-down menu.
Select the destination course or courses for the announcement and do the following:To publish the copied announcement to the destination course, select Publish Announcement on Copy. Select Next. Figure: Select from available courses to copy the announcement and then click Next. You can also choose to Publish Announcement on Copy.
Click Copy.Figure: Click Copy to have the selected destination course appear on the Copy Announcement page.
Click Done when Copy Complete appears.Figure: The Copy Announcement page displays the Copy Complete confirmation message. 

After copying, navigate to the destination course or courses. If you did not select Publish Announcement on Copy, the copied announcement appears in the announcements tool as a draft. You must publish the announcement from the course you copied it to. If you selected Publish Announcement on Copy, the copied announcement is published in the destination course. No further steps are required.

Your announcement is copied to another course. 
Publish an announcement
You can publish a draft announcement. All draft announcements are indicated in the Status column of the Announcements page.
To publish a draft announcement
Navigate to the Announcements widget.
On the Announcements page, click the title of the draft announcement to be published. Figure: You can view the Status of an announcement on the Announcements page. 
Click Publish.Figure: Click Publish on the Edit Announcement page.
The announcement is now published. 
Reordering an Announcements item
You can change the order of announcements in the Announcements widget. 
To reorder an announcement
Click the Announcements widget.
Do one of the following: On the Announcements page, from the More Actions button, click Reorder.From the Announcements widget menu, click Reorder Announcements Items.
Use the drop-down lists in the Sort Order column to select an item's order. Other items automatically reposition themselves according to the new order.
Click Save.
Your announcements are now reordered. 



--------------------------------------------------


Post assignments using the Activity Feed widget

Create an assignment post using Activity Feed
Create posts about assignments to remind and notify students about upcoming due dates, assignment instructions, and to provide additional resources.
To create an assignment post
From your course homepage, in the Activity Feed widget, click Create a post.
Click the Assignment tab.
Enter a title and instructions, choose a submission type, a completion type, set a due date, and select the Add to Grades check box.Tip: For instructions, you can add web links by copying and pasting the URLs. Web links show a thumbnail and description, if available. If you add a remote plug-in via a quicklink, the plug-in renders inline as an embedded attachment, allowing students to view the material without navigating away from Activity Feed.
If your course includes sections, use the Send To drop-down menu to select which section(s) you want to access the assignment. A section-specific release condition is automatically associated to the assignment.
Click Post.

Figure: Create your assignment post and click Post.
You have created an assignment post in the Activity Feed widget.
Video: Create an assignment post

Add an existing assignment in Activity Feed
Add an existing assignment in Activity Feed to notify students about their assignment and add any additional resources or information.
To add an existing assignment in Activity Feed
Navigate to your course.
From the course homepage, under Activity Feed, click Create a post.
Click Assignment and click Select Existing.

Figure: Click Select Existing to choose an assignment.
Under Assignments, choose a preexisting course assignment.

Figure: Select an assignment in the Insert an Assignment dialog.
Do one of the following:To post the existing assignment immediately, click Post.To post the existing assignment at a later time, click Post Later and select a future time and date to post the item.

Figure: Click Post or Post Later to complete your assignment post.
You have created an assignment post in the Activity Feed widget.
Post assignments to Activity Feed from Content
Your course homepage must include the Activity Feed widget for materials posted in this manner to display.
Navigate to Content.
Select the assignment you want to post.

Figure: Choose the assignment you want to post and click Post to Course Homepage.
Click the Options menu and select Post to Course Homepage.
Review your assignment and click Post or Post Later. If selecting Post Later, enter a date and time for when the post will appear.

Figure: Click Post or Post Later in the dialog.
You have posted an assignment to the Activity Feed widget from Content.



--------------------------------------------------


Control commenting on Activity Feed posts

            Teachers can control the ability for learners to comment on Activity Feed posts. Commenting can be enabled or disabled for the entire feed or for individual posts.
Comment on Activity Feed posts
Comment on Activity Feed posts to answer questions and clarify information for learners.
To comment on Activity Feed posts
Navigate to your course homepage where Activity Feed is available.
Below the post you are responding to, click anywhere in the Write a comment text box.

Figure: Click the Write a comment text box in Activity Feed.
Enter a message.
Click Post.
Remove comments
In the Activity Feed widget, in the comment you want to delete, click Options > Delete Comment.

Figure: Click the Options menu and then click Delete Comment.
Disable commenting for the entire Activity Feed
On your course homepage, open the Activity Feed Actions menu.
Select Manage commenting and posting.

Figure: Click the Actions menu and then click Manage commenting and posting.
In the Commenting section, select the Enable comments on posts check box to disable commenting if the box is already checkmarked.
Click Save.

Figure: Click the Enable comments on posts check box.
Disable commenting on a new post
On your course homepage, in the Activity Feed widget, click Create a post.
Select Message or Assignment to determine the type of post.
Uncheck the Allow Comments check box.

Figure: Select the Allow Comments check box.
Write your post.
Click Save.
Toggle commenting on an existing post
Click Options (...) from the post you want to toggle commenting for.
Click Edit Assignment or Edit Message, depending on the type of post.

Figure: Click the Options menu and then click Edit Assignment.
Check or uncheck the Allow Comments check box.

Figure: Select the Allow Comments check box.
Click Save Changes.
Note: If commenting is disabled for your course, you cannot enable commenting for an individual post. If commenting is disabled for the course or an individual post, any previously-created comments are saved. If commenting is re-enabled, the previously-created comments are displayed. This allows an teacher to temporarily disable commenting without losing previously-posted comments.



--------------------------------------------------


Create discussion forums and topics

Encourage your students to share thoughts on course material with peers by setting up forums and topics for students to ask questions, discuss course content and assignments, and work together in assigned groups and sections. You must create a discussion forum first, which will contain associated discussion topics. Discussion forums organize course discussions topics into categories such as weekly discussions, open discussions, and group discussions.
You can start the creation of a discussion forum or topic using the following options:
Create a discussion forum in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Create a discussion forum in the Classic Content Experience
Create a discussion forum in the Discussions tool
Choose one of the workflows below according to your organization’s setup.
Best practices for using Discussions
Ensure that there are discussion topics created for your discussion forum(s)Forums are used to group topics into predetermined themes, course units, etc. You can only post in discussion topics. If there are no topics created for a forum, then students will not be able to participate in discussions. On the course homepage, click Discussions. Make sure that there are topics nested under the discussion forum. If you do not see topics nested under the discussion forum(s), you must create topics.
Ensure that discussion forums and topics are not unintentionally hiddenThe option to hide a discussion forum or topic is located on the Discussion List page, in the context menu for each forum or topic. The Hidden icon appears beside any topics or forums that are currently hidden. Forums and topics can also be hidden on the New Forum or New Topic page (or the Edit page for existing forums and topics), in the Restrictions tab's Availability section.If you selected Hide this [topic or forum], then students cannot see it. If a discussion forum has this setting enabled, all of the topics nested under it are also hidden.
Ensure that there are no unwanted date restrictions set for the discussion forum or topic                Students cannot access topics that fall outside of set date restrictions. If a discussion forum has date restrictions attached, then all topics nested under it will be hidden outside of those date restrictions.The option to set date restrictions is located on the New Forum or New Topic page (or the Edit page for existing forums and topics), in the Restrictions tab's Availability section.
Ensure that the appropriate group restriction settings are appliedIf group restrictions are enabled for the discussion forum or topic, then only students within the group selected can see the discussion.The option to set group restrictions is located on the New Forum or New Topic page (or the Edit page for existing forums and topics), in the Restrictions tab of the Group and Section Restrictions section. Select Restrict this forum to the following groups and sections to enable group restrictions for a forum or topic.
Video: The New Discussions Creation Experience

Video: How to create a discussion forum

Create a discussion forum in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can create a discussion forum in the New Content Experience (Lessons). This adopts creation elements from Assignments and Quizzes, making it familiar and easier to create great course content.
To create a discussion forum
Navigate to Content.
Click Create New.Figure: Click Create New button to start creating a new discussion forum.
Click Discussion.Figure: Click Discussion on the What would you like to create? page.
A forum is automatically created using your new topic name. You can complete the discussion creation process to create a topic associated with that forum. If desired, you can change the forum associated with your discussion topic.
To change the forum using the streamlined forum selection workflow
From the New Topic page, click Change Forum.Figure: Click Change Forum on the New Topic page.
From the Change forum dialog, do one of the following:
Figure: You can either Create a forum or Choose an existing forum in the Change forum dialog.
Select Create a Forum and enter a Forum Title.
Select Choose an existing forum.
Click Apply Changes.
Your new discussion topic forum is changed.
To change the forum using the explicit forum selection workflow
From the New Topic page, click Forum and select the desired forum from the drop-down menu.Figure: Select a Forum from the drop-down menu on the New Topic page.
Click either Save or Save and Close.
Your new discussion topic forum is changed.
Create a discussion forum in the Classic Content Experience
You can create a discussion forum in the Classic Content Experience.
To create a Discussion forum in the Classic Content Experience
From your course homepage navbar, navigate to Content.
Click Upload/Create.
Click New Discussion.Figure: Click New Discussion from the Upload/Create drop-down menu.
Click New Forum.Figure: Click New Forum on the New Topic page.
From the Create Discussion Forum page, enter the following:Figure: Use the Create Discussion Forum dialog in the Classic Content Experience to enter the following fields.In the Create Discussion Forum field, enter a forum title.In the editor, enter any forum details you want to include.Note: The editor field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.
Click Create.
A new forum is created using the Classic Content Experience. You can now create a topic associated with that forum.
Create a discussion forum in the Discussions tool
You can also create a discussion forum in the Discussions tool.
To create a discussion forum from the Discussions tool
From your course navbar, navigate to Discussions.
Click New > New Forum.Figure: Click New Forum from the New drop-down menu.
Navigate to the Properties tab of the New Forum page and set the following:Enter a Title for your new discussion forum (1).Use Brightspace Editor to add a Description (2).Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.Click to select additional forum options, including Allow anonymous posts, participation requirements, and Display forum description in topics (3).Figure: Set the New Forum Details in the Properties tab.Allow anonymous posts: Enables users to post anonymously.A moderator must approve individual posts before they display in the forum: Ensures that posts are approved by a moderator before they display in the forum.Users must start a thread before they can read and reply to other threads in each topic: Ensures user participation by making thread creation mandatory.Display forum descriptions in topics: Provides teachers the option to display a discussion forum description within a discussion topic description.
Click the Restrictions tab and do one or more of the following:Under Availability, define the date range when the discussion will be available to users. (1). Availability options specify when students can access (or view) a forum based on a specific date set by you. For example, you can set a date to make a discussion forum available to students after the end date for finishing a course module. Locking Options specify if students can post or reply to a forum based on a specific date set by you. For example, you can set a date to lock a discussion forum after making it available, giving students time to read and understand the discussion forum, but not post replies. You can also set a date to unlock the forum several days later, allowing students to post their well thought out replies.Visible with access restricted before start/end. The forum is visible to students  before or after the start or end date, but they cannot access it.Visible with submission restricted before start/end. The forum is visible to students  before or after the start or end date and they can access it, but they cannot post new threads or replies. This effectively makes a discussion read-only.Hidden before start/end. The forum is hidden from students until the start or end date. Calendar events for Availability Start and Availability End are hidden until the start or end date. Notifications are also not sent until the start or end date.
Add automated conditions for access using Release Conditions. (2)
Apply restrictions to groups or sections. (3)Figure: Set your forum's  Availability, Release Conditions, and Group and Section Restrictions in the Restrictions tab.
Click Save and Close to create the forum; or Save and Add Topic to create a discussion topic within your new forum.Figure: Click Save and Close to create a discussion forum or click Save and Add Topic to create a new topic in your forum.
You have created a discussion forum using the Discussions tool.
Create a discussion topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can create a discussion forum in the New Content Experience (Lessons). This adopts creation elements from Assignments and Quizzes, making it familiar and easier to create great course content.
To create a discussion topic
Navigate to Content.
Click Create New.Figure: Click Create New to start creating a new topic.
Click Discussion.Figure: Click Discussion on the What would you like to create? page.
On the New Topic page, do the following:
Enter a Topic Title.
Click Change Forum to change the forum where your topic will go, if necessary.Note: Depending on how your organization has configured your course, you may need to explicitly select the forum from the Forum drop-down menu instead.
To add your topic to your grade book, enter a value in the Grade Out Of field.
Enter a Description for your topic using Brightspace Editor.Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: Enter your topic's Topic Title, Grade Out Of, and Description.
In the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion, enter the following:
Enter a Start Date and End Date.Adjust the Before end and After end restrictions based on your preferences by clicking each option.
Click Add Release Condition to create a new release condition or add an existing one.
Under Group and Section Restrictions, you can set different restrictions if you have Groups or Sections set up in your course.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.
In the Post & Completion accordion, select from the following options:
Default participation
Allow learners to hide their name from other learners
Learners must start a thread before they can view or reply to other threads
Posts must be approved before they display in the topic

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Post & Completion accordion.
In the Evaluation & Feedback accordion, do the following:
Click Add Rubric to attach a rubric to your discussion topic.
Click Manage Learning Objectives to associate learning objectives to your discussion topic.
Select Allow evaluation of individual posts to assign scores to  posts and select your Calculation Method. You can also choose to Include unevaluated posts in the topic score calculation as zero.
Select Allow learners to rate posts to allow students to score each others' posts. Then, select a rating type.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Evaluation & Feedback accordion.
Toggle the Visibility on or off.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: Use the Visibility toggle to set visibility. Once complete, click either Save or Save and Close.
Create a discussion topic in the Classic Content Experience
You can create a discussion topic in the Classic Content Experience.
To create a discussion topic in the Classic Content experience
From your course homepage navbar, navigate to Content.
Click Upload/Create.
Click New Discussion.Figure: Click New Discussion from the  Upload/Create drop-down menu.
On the Create a Discussion page, do the following:Figure: Use the Create a Discussion page in the Classic Content experience to set the following fields.Enter a title in the Enter a Title field.Select Hide from Users if you want to hide the topic from students.Under Instructions, enter your discussion topic information.
Click Save.
You have created a new discussion topic in the Classic Content Experience.
Create a discussion topic using the Discussions tool
You can also create a discussion forum in the New Content Experience (Lessons). This adopts creation elements from Assignments and Quizzes, making it familiar and easier to create great course content.
To create a discussion topic using the Discussions tool
Navigate to Discussions.
Click New > New Topic .Figure: Click New Topic from the New drop-down menu.
On the New Topic page, do the following:
Enter a Topic Title.
Click Change Forum to change the topic's forum.Note: Depending on how your organization has configured your course, you may need to explicitly select the forum from the Forum drop-down menu instead.
To add your topic to your grade book, enter a value in Grade Out Of.
Enter a Description for your topic using Brightspace Editor.Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: Enter the Topic Title, Grade Out Of, and Description.
In the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion, enter the following:
Enter a Start Date and End Date.
Adjust the Before end and After end restrictions based on your preferences by clicking each option.
Click Add Release Condition to create a new release condition or add an existing one.
Under Group and Section Restrictions, you can set different restrictions if you have Groups or Sections set up in your course.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.
In the Post & Completion accordion, select any of the following options to apply them to your discussion topic: Default participationAllow learners to hide their name from other learnersLearners must start a thread before they can view or reply to other threads
Posts must be approved before they display in the topic

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion and select the desired option or options.
In the Evaluation & Feedback accordion, do the following:
Click Add Rubric to attach a rubric to your discussion topic.
Click Manage Learning Objectives to associate learning objectives to your discussion topic.
Select Allow evaluation of individual posts to assign scores to  posts, and then select your Calculation Method. You can also choose to Include unevaluated posts in the topic score calculation as zero.
Select Allow learners to rate posts to allow students to score each others' posts. Then, select a rating type.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Evaluation & Feedback accordion.
Toggle the Visibility on or off.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: Use the Visibility toggle to set visibility. Once complete, click either Save or Save and Close.
You have created a topic using the Discussions tool.
Edit a discussion topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can edit a discussion topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons). This adopts creation elements from Assignments and Quizzes, making it familiar and easier to create great course content.
To edit a discussion topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Navigate to Content.
Locate the module where your discussion topic is posted and click the topic.
Click Options (...) > Edit.

Figure: Click Edit from the discussion's Options menu.
On your discussion topic's page, edit the Title, Forum, Grade Out Of, and Description fields.Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: You can make any changes to the discussion's Title, Forum, Grade Out Of, and Description fields.
In the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion, edit the Start Date and End Date, Release Conditions, and Group and Section Restrictions.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.
In the Post & Completion accordion, edit participation and display options for posts.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Post & Completion accordion.
In the Evaluation & Feedback accordion, attach a rubric, add learning objectives, and change evaluation settings for posts.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Evaluation & Feedback accordion.
Toggle the Visibility on or off.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: Set the discussion's Visibility. Once complete, click either Save or Save and Close.
You have edited a discussion topic.
Edit a discussion topic in the Classic Content Experience
You can edit a discussion topic in the Classic Content Experience.
To edit a discussion topic in the Classic Content experience
Navigate to Content.
Locate the module where your discussion topic is posted and click the topic. The topic opens for editing.Figure: Make any edits to the discussion topic once you've opened the topic's details page.
Do one or more of the following:Click the Title field to edit the title.Click the Instructions field to edit any instructions.In the Activity Details tab, click the properties you want to edit and click Update.In the Learning Objectives tab, click Add Learning Objectives to add learning objectives for your topic.
Click Update to save.
You have edited a discussion topic in the Classic Content Experience.
Edit a discussion topic using the Discussions tool 
You can edit a discussion topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons).  This  adopts creation elements from Assignments and Quizzes, making it familiar and easier to create great course content.
To edit a discussion topic using the Discussions tool
From your course homepage, navigate to Discussions.
Find your discussion topic and click the drop-down menu (arrow icon) beside the topic title and select Edit Topic.

Figure: Click Edit Topic from the topic's drop-down menu.
On your discussion topic's page, edit the Title, Forum, Grade Out Of, and Description fields.Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: You can edit the topic's Title, Forum, Grade Out Of, and Description fields.
In the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion, edit the Start Date and End Date, Release Conditions, and Group and Section Restrictions.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.
In the Post & Completion accordion, edit participation and display options for posts.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Post & Completion accordion.
In the Evaluation & Feedback accordion, attach a rubric, add learning objectives, and change evaluation settings for posts.

Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Evaluation & Feedback accordion.
Toggle the Visibility on or off.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: Use the Visibility toggle to set visibility. Once complete, click either Save or Save and Close.
You have edited a discussion topic.
Edit a discussion topic using the Discussions tool
You can also edit a discussion topic using the Discussions tool.
To edit a discussion topic in Discussions
From your course homepage, navigate to Discussions.
Find your discussion topic and click the drop-down menu (arrow icon) beside the topic title and select Edit Topic.
From the Edit Topic Details page, do one or more of the following:Figure: Use the Edit Topic Details page to change any of the following settings.Properties: Edit the topic Forum, Title, Description, posting Options, and allow ratings.Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters.Restrictions: Edit the Start Date and End Date, Release Conditions, and Group and Section Restrictions.Assessment: Select a Grade Item, edit the Score Out Of, add a Rubric, and allow assessments of posts.Objectives: Click Associate Learning Objectives to add a learning objective to your topic.
Click Save and Close.
You have edited a discussion topic using the Discussions tool.
Video: Create a Discussion Topic and Forum

Set assessment properties (optional) from the Discussions tool
The Assessment tab enables you to set assessment properties for your discussion topic by linking to grade items or rubrics.
Create a graded discussion topic with a linked grade item
You can link a grade item to your discussion topic to change it to a graded topic.
To create a graded discussion topic
From the New Topic or the Edit Topic page, click the Assessment tab.
Do one of the following to associate the discussion with a grade item that counts towards the final grade calculation:Choose an existing grade item from the list.Click New Grade Item to create and associate a new grade item with the discussion topic.
Apply a point value in Score Out Of.Note: The Score Out Of field does not need the same value as the associated grade item. Brightspace automatically calculates the Score Out Of value compared to the associated grade item value to include the appropriate score in Grade Book.Figure: Select an existing Grade Item from the Assessment tab.
You have created a graded discussion topic with a linked grade item.
Create a graded discussion topic with an associated rubric
Options to enable you to associate the discussion topic with a rubric are located below the grade item information on the Assessment tab.
To create a graded discussion topic with an associated rubric
Do one of the following:Select Add Rubric to apply an existing rubric to the discussion topic.Choose Create Rubric in New Window to create and associate a new rubric.
Click Allow assessment of individual evaluations, if appropriate, and set the calculation method.Figure: You can set the calculation method in the Rubrics section of the Assessments tab.
Note: You can also associate a learning objective with the discussion forum using the Objective tab.
You can add existing discussion topics to a lesson or module from Content.
Add an existing discussion from the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can add an existing discussion forum or topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons).
To add an existing discussion forum or topic
From your course navbar, click Content.
Select the unit that you would like to add a discussion topic to and click Add Existing.Figure: Click Add Existing to proceed.
From the What would you like to add? page, click Discussion.
From the Insert a Discussion dialog, click to select the forum and topic you want to add.Figure: Navigate to the desired discussion from Insert a Discussion dialog of the New Content Experience (Lessons), and select it.
Your discussion topic is added to the selected unit.
Add an existing discussion from the Classic Content Experience
You can also add an existing discussion to a module from the Classic Content Experience.
To add a discussion to a content module
On your course-level homepage, navigate to Content.
Select the module where you want to add the discussion.
Click Existing Activities > Discussions.Figure: Click Discussions from the Existing Activities drop-down menu.
Click the discussion forum that contains the discussion topic you want to add to the module.
Select the discussion topic.Figure: Select a discussion from the Add Activity window.wind
The discussion topics appear in the module.Figure: View your discussion topics in your course module.
Delete discussion forums, topics, threads, or posts in the Discussions tool
You can also delete discussion forums, topics, threads, or posts.
Important: When you delete a post, any replies to that post are also deleted.
To delete a forum, topic, thread, or post from the Discussions tool
On the navbar, click Discussions.
On the Discussions List page, click the context menu of the forum, topic, thread, or post you want to delete and click Delete, Delete Thread, or Delete Post.
To confirm the deletion, click Yes.
You have deleted a discussions forum, topic, thread, or post.
Restore deleted discussions
You must have the Delete and Restore Forums and Topics permission enabled to restore deleted discussions. If the forum you restore contains any topics, you have the option to also restore the forum's associated topics. 
To restore deleted threads and posts, you must have the See Deleted Posts permission and Display deleted posts option on the Settings page enabled. If the post you restore is a reply to another post, and the other post was also deleted, both posts are restored. 
On the navbar, click Discussions.
Do one of the following:
To restore a deleted forum or topic, on the Discussions List page, from the More Actions button, click Restore. Click Restore beside the forum or topic you want to restore.
To restore a deleted thread or post, click the Restore <Thread/Post> link in the thread or post you want to restore.
You have restored a deleted forum or topic.
Subscribe to discussion forums or topics using the Discussions tool
You can subscribe to a discussion forum from the Discussions tool. 
To subscribe to a discussion
On the navbar, click Discussions.
Do either of the following:On the Discussions List page, from the context menu of the forum or topic you want to receive notifications of new posts for, click Subscribe.Figure: Click Subscribe from the discussion forum or topic's drop-down menu.On the View Topics page, beside the thread you want to receive notifications for, click Subscribe.
In the Customize Notifications pop-up window, select your Notification Method. If you do not have an email address set up in your user profile to receive notifications, in the Customize Notifications pop-up window, click the Add an email address in a new window link. Click the Enable email notifications link, then set your email preferences in the Email Settings pop-up window. Click Save.
Click Subscribe.
You have subscribed to a discussion topic using the Discussions tool.
Video: Overview of subscription options

Reply to a discussion thread
Reply to discussion threads to engage with your students, encourage discussion, and support their learning.
To reply to discussion threads
Navigate to  Discussions.
Locate the thread you want to reply to and click on it.
Do either of the following: To reply to the main thread post, click Reply to Thread.  To reply to a particular post inside the thread, click Reply.

Figure: Click either Reply to Thread or Reply to post your reply.
Enter your reply in the Brightspace Editor. To include the original post’s text in your reply, click the Add original post text link.Note: If this option is already enabled by your course administrator, this message will not display. Posts have a character limit of 65,535 characters.

Figure: Use Brightspace Editor to create and post your reply.
Set any of the following options:To post anonymously, select Post as Anonymous if it is enabled for the thread.To receive updates on the thread using your selected notification method, select Subscribe to this thread.To attach a file, navigate to the Attachments area and click Browse to locate the file you want to attach.To attach an audio recording, navigate to the Attachments area and click Record Audio > Record. To make adjustments to your microphone selection and volume, click Flash Settings. To listen to your recording, click Play. To erase your recording, click Clear. If you have prerecorded audio and are using a supported browser, you can drag audio files onto the attachments upload target.To attach a video recording, navigate to the Attachments area and click Record Video > Allow > Record. When you finish recording, click Stop. Click Clear to erase your recording or Add to add the recording. If you have prerecorded video and are using a supported browser, you can drag video files onto the attachments upload target.

Figure: You can use Attachments to either Upload, Record, or Choose Existing files.
Click Post.
You have replied to a discussion thread.
Post to a group discussion topic
Post to group discussions so that students can discuss topics in independent groups and journal.
To post to a group discussion topic
Navigate to Discussions.
On the Discussions List page, select a group discussion topic.
Click Start a New Thread.

Figure: Click Start a New Thread to begin the process.
From the Post Thread to drop-down list, select All Groups, or a specific group.
Provide a subject and enter your post in the Brightspace editor.Note: Posts have a character limit of 65,535 characters.
Set any of the following options:To receive updates on the thread using your selected notification method, select Subscribe to this thread.To attach a file, navigate to the Attachments area, click Add attachments, click Upload, and locate the file you want to attach.To attach an audio recording, navigate to the Attachments area, click Record Audio > Record. To adjust your microphone selection and volume, click Flash Settings. To listen to your recording, click Play. To erase your recording, click Clear. If you have prerecorded audio and are using a supported browser, you can drag audio files onto the attachments upload target.To add your post to other topics, click Post to other topics, and then click Add Topics. Select the desired topics and click Add Topics.Figure: You can use Attachments to either Upload, Record, or Choose Existing files.
Click Post.
Note: If you select the option to post to all groups, the Discussions tool creates a copy of the thread for each group to access and reply to.



--------------------------------------------------


Create and manage awards

You can create awards that can be shared with others in other courses or else be restricted to the course and its child org units. If you restrict the award, it can only be added to the course offering in which you create the award and any child offerings of that course.
Note: Awards can also be managed and shared with users from the Learner Awards widget. For more information, refer to the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack topic.
Create an award
Awards, which include Badges or Certificates, can be automatically issued based on release condition criteria or can be manually awarded.
If you manually add an award, you must specify the criteria required to earn this award. When the award is automatically issued, the release conditions determine if learners meet the criteria.
Note: To prevent plagiarism and protect an organization's intellectual and branding copyrights, all earned certificates downloaded from the Awards tool are password-protected from editing. Each certificate is generated with a random password that is not displayed to users, preventing anyone from editing the certificate in Adobe® Acrobat® or Adobe Reader®. This makes it unnecessary to manually add password-protection to uploaded certificates.
To create a new award
From your homepage, do one of the following:On the navbar, click Awards.Click Course Admin. From the Assessments area, select Awards.
Click the Course Awards tab and and select sharing options for your award:Allow users in this course to share earned awards to an external badge repository/backpack to enable the export and sharing of course awards to an external badge repository or as digital credentials.Allow users in this course to make earned awards public to enable sharing of course awards as a public link.Allow users in this course to share awards to LinkedIn to enable sharing of course awards to learner's LinkedIn profiles.
Click Add Award To Course.Figure: Click Add Award To Course on the Course Awards tab to proceed.
Click Create.
From the New Award page, do the following:
Enter a Name, Criteria and Description for the new award. In the Criteria fields specify what a student  must do to achieve this award.Figure: Enter the Name, Description and Criteria  of your new award in the New Award page. These are all required fields.
From the Award Typedrop-down list, select Badge or Certificate.
In Availability, select the appropriate boxes to indicate if you want the award to be available to other award managers, and where it is available within the org structure.
In Expiry, select one of the following options:
To prevent the award from expiring, select Never. Examples of awards that never expire are certificates of merit for passing a course, or badges for perfect attendance.To set the award to expire on a specific date, select Fixed date. Examples of awards that will expire on a specific date are certifications for a skill that must be renewed, such as first aid training.To set the award to expire on a day relative to the day the award was granted, select Relative Day of the Month. Examples of awards that expire on a relative date are badges for Learner of the Week or for having achieved 100% on a test or assignment.
To notify the award recipient before an award expires, select Notify Before Expiry and indicate the number of days of lead time.
In Choose Award Image, do one of the following:If the image already exists in the image library, click From Existing Library.If you want to add a new icon to the image library, click Upload New Icon.Note: For Baked Badges, the only supported format in Brightspace is .png, and the minimum recommended pixel size of the badge is 200 px x 200 pxTo launch the OpenBadges website, click Create your own award image. Note: OpenBadges is a free website that allows you to create custom icons.
If you are creating a new certificate, in the Choose Certificate Template area, do one of the following:If the PDF template already exists in the image library, click From Existing Library.If you want to add a new template to the image library, click Upload New Template.
Verify that the Issuer Information is correct.
Ensure that the Use this award in <current course> now check box is correctly set.
Click Save.
The award is added to your course awards list.
Video: How to create a badge

Video: How to create a certificate

Add an existing award to a course
Once you have created an award, you must add the award to a course to make it visible to students  from the View Available Awardstab of the Awards tool or the Available Awards tab of the Learner Awards widget. 
To add an award to a course
From the course navbar click Awards.
From the Course Awards tab, clickAdd Award to Course.Note: To find an award, click the Badges, Certificates or All buttons to filter the list of available awards. If you are searching for a specific award, use the Search awards function. If you want to filter the list to your own awards, click Show only Awards I Created.Figure: The filter buttons on the Add an Award page.
Select the awards you want to add from the list and click Add.
The selected awards are added to the course.
Issue an award
You can issue awards (Badges or Certificates) from the Classlist Awards tab.
To issue and award 
Click the Classlist Awards tab.
Select a user, and click Issue.
From the Issue Award dialog, do the following:Figure: The Issue Award dialog.Select an Award.Enter the reason why you are issuing the award.
Click Issue.
The award is issued to the selected user.\
Video: Manually grant an award

Share awards with other courses
When you create an award, you can choose to share it with other courses you teach. By default, new awards are available to all your courses, but you can also share with other award creators in your home org unit, or all org units.
To share awards with other courses
From your course navbar, click Awards.
From the Course Awards tab, do one of the following:  
If you have not created an award, click Create to open the New Award page and fill in the required fields.If you have already created an award for your course, but you haven't added the award to your course, click Add Award to Course and click Edit Award.Figure: The Edit Award option for an award that has been created.If you have already created and added an award for your course, click Edit Award.Figure: The Edit Award option for an award that has been created and added to a course.
Under Availability, do one of the following:Select Make this award available to all of my courses if you only want to share within your own courses.Select Make this award available to other award creators and their courses if you want to share the award with others. You can further restrict the award to the course in which it is created and its child org units.
Click Save and Close.
The award is available to your chosen course, creator, or org unit.
Hide an award from users until it is earned
In some cases, you might want to hide an award from a student  until they have earned it. Hiding awards means that the award does not appear on the Available Awards tab of the Awards page. After the learner earns the award, it appears in the Available Awards and My Awards page.
To hide an award until it is earned
From your course navbar, click Awards.
From the Course Awards tab,  click Edit Properties for the award you want to edit.
Select the Award hidden until earned checkbox.Figure: The Award hidden until earned checkbox.
Click Save.
The award will not be visible to students  until they earn the award.
Add release conditions to an award
You can add release conditions to an award and release other content or another award to students  when they achieve the award requirement that you define.
To add release conditions to an award
From your course navbar, click Awards.
From the Course Awards tab,  click Edit Properties for the award you want to edit.
Under Release Conditions, click Create.Figure: The Create a Release Condition dialog.
From the Condition Type drop-down list, select a release condition type.
Under Condition Details, further configure your release condition based upon the Condition Type you selected. For example, if you selected Award Earned, select the Award you want your student  to earn to trigger release.
Click Create and then click Save.
Release conditions are added to the award.
Video: Add release conditions to an award

Copy an award from another course
You can copy awards from another course. Copied awards include all release conditions originally set to release the award.
Note: Sharing awards, or adding existing awards through the Awards tool does not include associated release conditions.
To copy an award from another course
From the course offering that you want to copy the award to, click Course Admin, and click Import/Export/Copy Components.
Select Copy Components from another Org Unit and click Search for offering.
Search for and select the course that you want to copy an award from and click Add Selected .Figure: The Add Selected button.
From the Import/Export/Copy Components page, click Select Components.Figure: The Select Components button.
Select Awards, then do one of the following:•	To include all items, select Copy all items, then click Continue.•	To include only some items, select Select individual items to copy, then click Continue. On the Select Items to Copy page, select the items you want to copy. Click Continue.
	Click Continue.

	Click Finish.

Brightspace notifies you when copying is complete. Awards are copied to your course.
View all issued awards
You can view all awards that you've issued to students  in your course.
To view all issued awards
From your course navbar, click Awards.
Click the Classlist Awards tab. All students  as well as their that are part of your course Classlist are listed. Course Awards are displayed next to each student .Figure: The Classlist Awards tab with the Classlist and Awards displayed.
To filter the awards that appear in the list, click All, Badges, or Certificates.
Select the sort order.
Review the Classlist and associated Course Awards.
Using Awards task to evaluate non-learner roles
When evaluating an award, the user list is limited to only users with the role setting “Display this role in the classlist” enabled. This is in line with the Awards UI configuration settings. Conditionally-Released Awards now only process users that are visible in the Classlist and, since they are present in the Classlist, in the awards list.
Conditionally-released Awards are granted to users with the Display users enrolled as this role in classlist permission.
Revoke an award
In some cases, you may want to revoke a previously granted award. 
To revoke an award
From the course navbar, click Awards.
Click theClasslist Awards tab and select one or more learners in the Classlist.Note: You can use the Search classlist function to search for a specific student .
Click Revoke. 
From the Revoke Award dialog, select the reward you want to revoke.Figure: The Revoke Award dialog.
In the Revoke Reason field, enter a reason for revoking the award. 
Click Revoke.
The award is revoked from the selected user(s).
Video: Revoke an award

FAQs on Award Sharing
Q: Why don’t I see this sharing option?
A: This feature must be turned on by an administrator, and instructors can turn it off for their course. It is enabled by the following config variable: d2l.Tools.Awards.PublicAwardsEnabled (Org). When the config is turned ON, a checkbox appears on the Course Awards page that allows the instructor to determine whether  awards from that course can be shared via a public link. By default, this sharing option is ON. If the checkbox remains on, users in the course can create a public link for their award. If the checkbox is unchecked, this option is removed for awards issued in that course.
Q: Can I un-share an award once it has been made public?
A: Yes, you can click the Delete option in the Share Award modal to delete the public URL. If someone visits that URL after it has been deleted, they will see an error.
Q: Do deletions of the award, course, etc., in Brightspace cause the public award to be deleted?
A: No. Deletions of the award, the course, or the user in Brightspace have no impact on the public award. One exception is if a user or institution formally requests a data purge. In this case, any data purged from Brightspace (such as a user’s name) will no longer appear on publicly shared awards pages.
Q: What happens to the public award if my institution or company stops using Brightspace?
A: If an institution or company no longer uses Brightspace as their LMS and their entire Brightspace site is deleted, then the public awards pages shared from that site will become unavailable. Continuing to display these awards may be supported in the future, but it is not currently supported.
Q: What happens if my award expires?
A: The issuer sets the award’s expiration date when they create the award. It can be a static date or a relative date (for example, 3 months after the date the recipient earned the award). The public award page lists the expiration date, and the page continues to persist after the expiration.
Q: What happens if my award is revoked? 
A: If your award is revoked (manually “taken back” from you by your instructor or institution), then a message is added to the public award page to indicate the award has been revoked by the issuer.
Q: Can I share a Certificate as well as a Badge?
A: Yes. There are two types of Awards in Brightspace: Badges and Certificates. Badges are represented by a badge image, while Certificates include a PDF. You can share the award via a public URL, whether it is a badge or certificate. However, the PDF for the certificate is not currently included on the public page. The information about the award (such as issuer, name, description, etc.) is displayed, but the PDF is not included.
Q: What other options are available for sharing my award?
A: Sharing options depend on your site’s configuration, but if all options are turned on by an administrator via config variables, you can share your award in a few ways. You may have the option to share your award internally within Brightspace by adding it to your ePortfolio or your Profile. You may also have the option of sharing it externally to Badgr. Note that this option requires you to log into or create a Badgr account.
Q: Who is the “issuer” of the award?
A: The Issuer name, email, and website are set by the award creator on an award-by-award basis at the bottom of the Create Award and Edit Award pages. Defaults for these fields are set by an administrator via the following configuration variables: d2l.Tools.Award.IssuerName, d2l.Tools.Award.IssuerContact, and d2l.Tools.Award.IssuerURL. Note that this is existing functionality and has not changed with the introduction of this feature.
Q: How are the award’s “criteria” determined?
A: If your award is issued automatically in Brightspace by Release Conditions, like earning a certain score on a quiz or completing certain content topics, then these Release Conditions are listed as the criteria. If your award was manually issued, the issuer could enter the criteria with a statement, “The recipient was observed demonstrating XYZ skills.”
Q: How is it determined which language to display on the Public Awards page?
A: The language of the headers on this page (such as Recipient and Issue Date) is determined by the user’s language preference set in their browser. The language of the award title and description comes directly from how they were entered it into Brightspace. For example, if the award creator gave the title of the award a name in Spanish, that name will persist and will not be translated regardless of the viewer’s browser setting.
Q: What version of my name will be shown under “Recipient”?
A: The Public Award page displays the recipient’s Preferred Name from Brightspace. If no Preferred Name is set for the user, it will display the user’s Legal Name. This is consistent with other areas of Brightspace.
Q: Does the issuer’s logo appear on the public award page?
A: The issuer’s name appears, as well as the badge image, which can be a custom design that may include the issuer’s logo. Additionally, the page uses a version of the issuer’s URL, and it will display the same favicon as the issuer’s Brightspace site, which may be their logo. However, the page does not contain the issuer’s logo in the header or page content. Instead, the D2L logo appears in the top left corner of the page to represent the system powering the public award.
Troubleshooting: Certificate text is too long
Depending on the template that you use for your certificates, you may find that the text you intend to use extends beyond the text box borders. Some of the text in the certificates is gathered automatically from user and course attributes, and you may need to adjust the template to fit your requirements. Try one or more of the following suggestions:
Change the field length in the template
Change the size of the font
Add word-wrap to the text field
Make the text box larger
Note: Any changes you make to the certificate template affect other certificates that have been granted using that template.
Awards FAQ
Can I award students the same badge multiple times?
Currently, the feature to award students the same badge multiple times does not exist in Brightspace.
Do I have to create a new badge each time I want to give the same student the same badge?
Yes, to award the same badge to a student multiple times, you will need to create a new badge each time. D2L recommends creating a new badge and awarding it to the students whenever they reach out for assistance.
How can I set an expiry date for certificates and allow students to renew them before they expire?
The Expiry Date is a property of the Certificate itself and is absolute, not relative. To facilitate certificate renewal before expiry, you have two options:
Remove the Expiry: While this might not be desirable, it would effectively eliminate the expiry date.
Create a New Award: Generate a new certificate award with a renewed Expiry Date set further into the future. This way, students can receive the updated certificate before the current one expires.
How can I replicate Awards across courses or to another Brightspace instance, considering that the course Import/Export/Copy tool does not support copying awards directly?
While the course Import/Export/Copy tool does not offer direct support for copying awards, within the same Brightspace environment, you have two effective options for reusing awards across courses:
Sharing awards with other users During the creation or editing of an award, under Availability, choose one of the following options:Make this award available to all of my courses.Make this award available to other award creators and their courses.This enables sharing awards with users in other courses who possess the necessary role permissions to create them.
Using the Import/Export/Copy Components tool
Navigate to the destination course where you want to replicate the award(s).
Using the Import/Export/Copy Components tool, select Copy Components from another Org Unit.
Choose the source course and copy the award(s) to the desired destination within the same Brightspace environment.
Currently, copying awards between Brightspace environments using the Import/Export/Copy Components tool with the standard course copy option is not supported. Manual recreation remains the alternative in such cases.
Is it possible to add Awards as a Class Progress category for faculty as they currently do not have visibility into the awards students are receiving?
Currently, Awards is not directly available as a category in Class Progress. However, administrators can grant faculty the ability to see Awards by adjusting permissions at the organization level. To provide faculty with visibility into Awards:
Adjust role permissions: Identify the role that faculty have in the organization. Grant the necessary permissions for viewing Awards to that role.
Org level permissions: Assign permissions at the organizational level to ensure faculty have access to view Awards for students.
In the award certificate generator, what data do the {FirstName}, {LastName}, and {FullName} fields derive from?
The {FirstName}, {LastName}, and {FullName} fields in the award certificate generator derive their data from the user's Legal First Name and Legal Last Name.
What's the difference between a Badge and a Certificate?
Badges are awarded based on any criteria determined by you. They are meant to provide digital markers that represent accomplishment throughout a course or program.
Certificates are also awarded based on criteria determined by you. Certificates are similar to Badges, however, they include a PDF that users can print.
To learn more, refer to About Awards.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage locations

Use locations to inform your students  where a calendar created event or class session is occurring. Use the Locations tool to set locations active or inactive, as well as reset associated layouts. 
Note: Locations can be linked to events in the Calendartool. Refer to the Manage course events with the Calendar tool topic for details.
Locations are created and linked to layouts using the Seating Charts tool. You can configure a layout by toggling seats on or off to mimic your classroom environment. Refer to the Create and manage seating charts topic for details.
Important: You must be granted the Locations > Manage Locations and Delete Locations permissions to access the Locations tool.  Contact your administrator for details.
Set locations active or inactive
Locations are set to inactive by default. 
To set locations active or inactive
From your course navbar, click Locations.
On the Locations page, select the location you want to make active or inactive and do one of the following:Figure: The Set Active and Set Inactive buttons.Click Set Active. The selected location is set to active and a check mark displays next to the location name.Click Set Inactive. The selected location is set to inactive and a no symbol is displayed next to the location name.Note: You cannot create a seating chart for an inactive location or associate an inactive location with Calendar events. 
Click the Active tab to review any active locations.
Reset a layout
If you have customized layouts for individual courses, you can revert a layout to the original layout set by the organization.
To reset a layout
From your course navbar, click Locations.
From theLocationspage, hover over the icon next to the location name and click to open the location layout.Figure: The layout icon.
Click More Actions and then click Reset Layout.
The layout of the location is reset.



--------------------------------------------------


Create and manage seating charts

Seating charts provide a visual representation of your classroom seating arrangement. You can activate and deactivate seats to mimic the physical layout of your class and assign learners permanent spots in the chart.
Using the seating chart, you can view and track student performance, attendance, and participation for your course and group events on a session-by-session basis. You can also monitor response rates of students  when they are called on in class unsolicited (also known as a cold call).
Seating Chart integrates with both the Locations and Calendar tools. Because seating charts are dependent on Locations, you must first create or activate a location with a layout before you can create any seating charts.
Create a seating chart
You can create seating charts for any group or section in your course.
Important: To create and manage seating charts, you must be grated Seating Chart permissions. Also, you must have existing Locations and associated Layoutscreated and set active. If you are unable to add or edit locations and layouts, contact your administrator as you may not have the necessary permissions.
To create a seating chart
Navigate to Seating Chart.
Click Create a Chart.
From the Create a Chart dialog, do the following:Figure: The Create a Chart dialog.Enter a Chart Name.Select a Location for your seating chart. Note: The Location is linked to a layout of seat rows and columns. Select the Attendees you want to add to your seating chart. These will be Classlists created for courses.
Click Save. A new sating chart is created. However,  students  are not yet assigned to seats. 
Assign a seat
The options for assigning users to seats are only available when setting up the seating chart; after a session launches, these options lock. Any changes made to the seating chart after a session launches apply only to future sessions. All seat assignments and changes to seating charts save automatically. 
To assign students to seats
From the Seating Chart page, scroll to the bottom of the page.Figure: The Seating Chart page.
To assign seating from the seating chart view, by do any of the following: Drag-and-drop course participants one by one to assign or swap seats. To randomly place all unassigned learners on the seating chart at once, or to assign them specific locations in the chart (for example, bottom left), click Assign All. To assign seats individually, from the context menu of each unassigned learner, click Assign User.
To remove all learners from the seating chart, from the More Actions button, select Remove All. 
To randomize seat assignments, from the More Actions button, select Randomize. 
Once your have completed assigning seats, click Lock to lock the seating chart.
Your students  are assigned seats on the seating chart.
Video: Create a seating chart

Create a session
When you create an event using the Calendar tool, you can set the event to use a specific Location and Seating Chart. This automatically creates a session that students  from the specified seating chart can attend. You can also track attendance and participation for sessions and make student -specific comments. 
When you click a session, it starts automatically and remains in progress until you click  Set Session Completed. This locks the attendance, participation tracking, and comments that you enter for the session. 
Important: To create a session, you must create an event using the Calendar tool and set the event to use a location and seating chart. Refer to the Manage course events with the Calendar tool topic for details.
If you want to add an event that isn't already associated with your location and seating chart, you can add the event and create a session.
To add an event and create a session in seating chart
Navigate to Seating Chart.
Click More Actions and select Add Events.
Select the event you want to add and click Add.
A new session is created based upon the added event date and time.
Video: Create a session in Seating Chart

Session Statuses
The following are possible session statuses that can display beside seating charts:

Status


Description


Not Launched/No Session


Seating charts with sessions that have not been launched, or that do not have sessions attached to them, display no icons beside their seating chart name.


In Progress


Seating charts with sessions in progress have an  In Progress icon beside the seating chart name.  


Complete


Seating charts with complete sessions have a box () where the number indicates the participation score for the session and the color indicates what threshold value the session attained. 

Set a target participation score for a session
Once you have created an event and session, you can set a positive threshold (the target participation score expected from students in a session) and a negative threshold (the minimum score students need to exceed to pass the session's participation requirements) for your sessions. 
Seating Chart uses color coding when viewing a session to help distinguish participation:

Color


Learner progress


Green


Indicates students who are achieving or exceeding the positive threshold value. 


Yellow


Indicates students who are below the positive threshold value, but are equal to or above the negative threshold value.


Red


Indicates students who are below the negative threshold value.

To set a positive and negative threshold for a session
Navigate to Seating Chart.
Click the Settings icon (gear) to open Participation Options.Figure: The Participation Options dialog.
Enter a Positive Threshold and Negative Threshold.
Click Save.
The event session now has a target score that students  must meet when they join the session.
What is a seating chart cold call?
The cold call feature tracks the number of times you request a response or comment from a learner in class who has not volunteered to participate.
When you mark a student who has been cold called during the session, the  Cold Call icon appears beside the student's name. This helps you track students you have called on in sessions. 
Track session attendance
You can use sessions to track student  attendance and participation during lectures. You can also add, edit, and delete user-specific comments during sessions. All changes save automatically inside sessions.
Note: Before you can take attendance using Seating Chart, you must create an event using Calendar and assign the location of the event. Refer to the Create and manage seating charts topic for details
To track attendance
Navigate to Seating Chart.
Click a seating chart.
Click an event for the seating chart.Figure: An event listed for a Seating Chart.
Click the user you want to track from the session seating chart and do one of the following:Figure: The Present and Absent buttons for a student .To mark a user present, click Present. If you mark a user as present, adjust their Participation and Cold Call scores using the Lessand Moreicons. Note: You can award negative scores for participation, but not for cold calls. To mark a user absent, from the Absent button, select Unexcused Absence or Excused Absence. To review all attendance, click the Attendance button.
To give personalized session feedback, click Add Comment. 
Click anywhere outside the user's session summary to return to the session. 




--------------------------------------------------


Manage course events with the Calendar tool

Display all upcoming events to students in one spot. Post events such as project due dates, office hours, in-class events and more to the calendar.
Create course events in Calendar
You can create an event for your course using the Calendar tool. 
Note: You can also add locations to your events, and assign them to seating charts. Refer to the Manage events and locations topic for more details.
To create course events in Calendar
On the navbar, click Calendar.
Click Create Event.
From the Create Event page, do the following:Figure: The Create Event page.To associate course content with the event, click Add Content. Select the module from which you want to add content. Click Add.If you've associated course content with the event and want to use a custom name for the event, select the Use custom name check box. Enter a name for your event.If you have not associated course content with the event, enter a name for your event.To add date and time details to your course event, in the When area, click on the provided fields.To add recurrences to the event, click Add Recurrence. Enter your event recurrence details.To add restrictions to the event, click Add Restriction. Enter your event restriction details.To add a location for the event, from the Location drop-down list, and do the following:Select a location from the drop-down list. All active locations are available to associate with the event.Select the Custom option from the drop-down list. Enter the name of the location for your event in the adjacent field.If there are no active locations and a drop-down list is not available, enter the name of the location for your event in the field provided.If you have the required role permissions, enter a location name to create a new location.Figure: The Location field of the Create Event page.Important: You must be granted the Locations > Manage Locations and Delete Locations permissions to enter a location name and create a location. This permission also enables you to Manage Locations from the Locations tool. Refer to the  Manage locations topic for details.
Click Create.
The event is created and added to your calendar.
Video: Create a Calendar event

Change Calendar settings
From your course navbar, click Calendar.
Click Settings.Figure: The Settings dialog for Calendar.
Under Calendar Options, do any of the following:Set Core Hours for your course.Select a Default Event Duration.To allow users to subscribe to your calendars using an iCal feed, select Enable Calendar Feeds.
Under Task Options, do any of the following:Select how long to show Completed Tasks on your calendar.Select the Default Duration for upcoming tasks.If desired, select Confirm before deleting tasks.
Click Save.
Your calendar settings are saved.
Create multiple instances of an event for different groups and sections
If you have more than one group or section participating in the same course event during different time intervals, you can create multiple instances of the same event, tailored to each group or section’s needs. The group or section events share the name and description fields, but once you finish creating the events in bulk, they display as individual events. 
To create events for different groups or sections
On the navbar, click Calendar.
Click Create Event.
In the Attendees area, click Add Groups/Sections. Figure: The Attendees area of the Create Event page.Important: This option is only available if you have already created at least one group or section for your course.
In the Add Groups dialog, click on the group or section you want to add. Repeat steps 3-4 until you have added all of the groups and sections you want.
For each group or section, customize the date, time, frequency, location, and any restrictions for your event.
Click Create.
Multiple instances of the same event are created for each group or section.
Change visibility for events
You can customize when you want an event to be hidden or visible.
To change visibility for events
On the navbar, click Calendar.
From the tool navigation, click the List tab.Figure: The Calendar page with the List tab selected.
Select the check boxes by any event for which you want to make visibility changes.
Click More Actions and select  Change Event Visibility.
From the Set Visibility dialog, select from the following:Figure: The Set Visibility dialog.VisibleHidden Until: Enter a range of days, hours, or minutes before the event start to keep the event hidden.Hidden After: Enter a range of days, hours, or minutes after the event start to make the event hidden.Visible Between: Set a date range for when the event is visible.Hidden
Click Save.
The selected events are set to be hidden or visible based upon your settings.
Offset dates for events
You can change the dates and times of event.
To offset dates for events
On the navbar, click Calendar.
From the tool navigation, click List.
Select the check boxes by any event for which you want to offset dates.
From the More Actions button, click  Offset Dates.
From the Offset Dates dialog, do any of the following:Figure: The Offset Dates dialog.Select to offset the date either forward or backward.Select to offset by days, hours, or minutes.Enter a range for the offset. For example, a range of 5 will move the unit of time forward or backward by 5.
Click Save.
Your event date is updated.
Add a location to calendar events
The Locations tool integrates with Calendar, enabling you to add locations to events you create in the calendar for a specific course or for the organization. Use this functionality to quickly and easily notify students where events are taking place. When a calendar event has an associated location, the location appears in the event information.
Locations must be active to add them to events. If you have the appropriate permissions, you can activate locations when you create events in the Calendar tool by clicking the Manage Locations link.
Access the Calendar tool.
Click Create Event.
Enter the details of the event.
In the Location section, do one of the following: 
Select a location from the drop-down list. All active locations are available to associate with the event.
Select the Custom option from the drop-down list. Enter the name of the location for your event in the adjacent field.
If there are no active locations and a drop-down list is not available, enter the name of the location for your event in the field provided.




--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Parent & Guardian Web Application - Teacher Tip Sheet

Brightspace Parent & Guardian  allows authorized parents and guardians to log in to a school's Brightspace to see what their children are working on, what’s on the schedule, and the latest news from the classroom. This helps parents and guardians engage with their young learners and maintain awareness of their upcoming work.
Get started
To use the Brightspace Parent & Guardian web application, parents and guardians require the following:
Brightspace Parent & Guardian is enabled in your school's Brightspace instance.
The URL of your school's Brightspace.          
A Brightspace username and password provided by your school's Brightspace administrator.
A supported browseron a desktop computer or device. 
Log in to Brightspace Parent & Guardian
The fist step is to log in to the web application with the username and password provided by the school's Brightspace administrator.
To log in to the Brightspace Parent & Guardian web application
From a supported browser, navigate to the URL for your school's Brightspace.
Enter your Brightspace user name and password.
After you log in to Brightspace Parent & Guardian, the page that displays depends on how many students  (children) you are assigned to:
If you are assigned to multiple learners, the learner selector page appears. Each learner tile displays the child's name, and the amount of overdue work, upcoming work, and recent grades. Click the learner whose information you want to access.If you are assigned to a single learner, logging in takes you directly to the Student Dashboard, which displays more detailed information.
Navigate the web application

Figure: Parent/guardian view when logged in to their Brightspace Parent & Guardian account
1. Work To Do
To provide you with a clear and consolidated view of your child's work, the Work to Do widget displays a summary of assigned learning activities from all their courses that are overdue or have an upcoming due date or end date. Counters for each section indicate how many learning activities remain to be completed, along with information about each learning activity's name, due date, and course name. For example, the Overdue section displays any assignment, quiz, or content that has not been completed and is past the set due date on the respective activity.
Learning activities only appear in the Work To Do widget when the activity has a defined due date or end date. By default, the widget displays activities due or ending in the upcoming 2 weeks, and overdue work from the previous 12 weeks.
In the Work To Do widget, you can click the following items to display more information:

Assignments


Discussions

The following items are non-clickable :

Content


Quizzes


Surveys


Checklists

To view details about all items, click View all work.
2. Recent Grades
The Recent Grades widget displays released grade items for all the courses your child is enrolled in. 
To view the details of a graded assignment or discussion activity, click the assignment or discussion in the Recent Grades widget.
To view all released grades, click View all grades. If an instructor is using the Grades tool for a course and they release the final course grade to the learner, the final course grade (final calculated grade or final adjusted grade) is also visible to you. From the learner's Grades page, you can filter by course.
If an instructor provided text feedback on a grade item, click view feedback.
Note: Surveys and checklist items do not display in the Recent Grades widget, since they are not gradable.
3. Portfolio Items
The Portfolio Items widget displays the two latest shared Brightspace Portfolio items belonging to your child; Portfolio items are shared by the instructor. 
To see all previously shared Portfolio items, click View all portfolio items. When you view a specific shared Portfolio item, you can see any thoughts your child included with the item, along with any comments provided by the instructor.
Note: If Brightspace Portfolio is not in use at your school, contact your school's administrator to request that it be activated.
4. Latest Posts
The Latest Posts widget displays an aggregate Activity Feed from all the courses your child is enrolled in. You can read posts and access shared links; you are not able to access content files.
To view the details of an assignment, click the assignment in the Activity Feed.
Note: If Activity Feed is not in use at your school, contact your school's administrator to request that it be activated.



--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Parent & Guardian Mobile App - Teacher Tip Sheet

Brightspace Parent & Guardian  allows authorized parents and guardians to log in to a school's Brightspace to see what their children are working on, what’s on the schedule, and the latest news from the classroom. This helps parents and guardians engage with their young learners and maintain awareness of their upcoming work.
Get started
To use the Brightspace Parent & Guardian mobile app, parents and guardians require the following:
The Brightspace Parent & Guardian web application must be currently enabled in your school's Brightspace.
The URL or name of your school's or district's Brightspace.
A Brightspace username and password provided by your school's Brightspace administrator.
The Brightspace Parent & Guardian mobile app, downloaded from  any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®.
Log in
From your device, tap the Brightspace Parent & Guardian icon.
Type the name or URL for your school's or district's Brightspace.
Enter your Brightspace username and password.
After you log in, tap the learner whose information you want to access.
Navigating the app
Brightspace Parent & Guardian features an intuitive interface for iOS and Android devices.

From the Home tab, a parent or guardian can view the following:

The Work to Do widget displays a summary of assigned learning activities from all courses that are overdue or have an upcoming due date or end date. Counters for each section indicate how many learning activities remain to be completed, along with information about each learning activity's name, due date, and course name.


The Recent Grades widget displays released grade items for all the courses their child is enrolled in.


The Portfolio Items widget displays the two latest shared Portfolio items belonging to their child that have been shared by the instructor. They can also view all previously shared Portfolio items from their child's portfolio.


The Latest Posts widget displays an aggregate Activity Feed from all the courses their child is enrolled in. For example, the instructor might post reminders about upcoming assignments and links to course materials.

From the Notifications tab, a parent or guardian can view notifications for upcoming assignments or quizzes for their child.



--------------------------------------------------


About course administration

Course Administration is a central area for accessing tools related to setting up and managing your course. From here you can access many tools to help you run your course smoothly, including:
Enable and disable course tools
Rename course tools
Manage course offering information
Import course components
Import learning outcomes
Note: Course Administration is  now the central location to manage learning outcomes. Learning Outcomes continue to appear in New Content Experience (Lessons), and any learning outcome you import in one location is reflected in the other.
About course locale
If your organization supports multiple locales, you can change the default locale used for your course offering. Normally users can specify their own locale within their preferences. You can also  override locale preferences so that all users see the same locale in your course. You might use this if you are teaching a language immersion course and want all the cultural formatting and text in the course offering to reflect the language you are teaching.
Course Admin offering information
You can edit the properties of your course offering on the Course Offering Information page. 
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Course Offering Information.
Make your changes.
Click Save.
Change the status of a tool
Course tools, such as Quizzes, Content, Discussions, Chat, and Grades, are course components that you add to your course offering to share learning content, foster interaction, and evaluate performance. You can enable and disable course tools to specifically tailor your course to your pedagogy and course materials.
Before enabling a tool, be aware of the following:
Some activated tools can only be accessed from the navbar or home page widgets. 
Before disabling a tool, be aware of the following: 
Release conditions based on the tool are not enforced as long as the tool remains disabled. 
Competency activities associated with the tool are hidden but are still associated with any learning objectives to which they are attached. Users cannot complete these learning objectives while the tool is disabled. You should detach or delete any activities associated with a tool before disabling the tool. 
Grade items associated with the tool remain, but you must manually update them in the grade book. 
Quicklinks to the tool’s items persist but a “No Resource Found” message displays when they are followed. You should remove any related quicklinks when you deactivate a tool. 
Deactivating a tool does not delete any items or user data inside the tool; it simply hides the tool from your course offering. 
To enable or disable a tool
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Tools.
Do one of the following:To enable a tool, toggle its status to  On.To disable a tool, toggle its status to  Off.
Rename a tool
You may want to rename a tool if your organization or geographic area is more familiar with different terminology. For example, you could rename Assignments to Assignment.
Changing the custom navbar name for a tool does not replace all uses of the original term throughout the system. It only changes the display name for the tool on the navbar. To replace all references to a specific term, a site administrator can update your organization’s language pack using the Manage Languages tool. 
On the navbar, click  Course Admin.
Click  Tools.
In the Custom Navbar Name field for the tool that you want to rename, enter the new tool name.
Press Enter or click outside the field. Your changes save automatically.




--------------------------------------------------


About Import/Export/Copy Components

You can export course components from your course, import course components into your course, or copy course components from another course into your course. To begin this process, navigate to Course Admin and select Import/Export/Copy Components.
Requirements
The following are required to use lmport/Export/Copy Components:
To see and use  Import/Export/Copy Components, you must have the required Import/Export/Copy Components permissions applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed  by your organization administrator.
To locate, navigate to Course Admin > lmport/Export/Copy Components.
Visual tour of Import/Export/Copy Components
Figure: Select from the options available to import, export, or copy course components.
Copy course components from another course that exists in another instance of Brightspace (Org Unit).
Export  course components as a Brightspace Package, which contains all the necessary resources you need to share your course with another Brightspace instance.
Export course components as a Common Cartridge, which is a set of open standards for content, assessment, and digital content that allows publishers and content creators to create LMS-independent course packages.
Export course components as a Thin Common Cartridge (Thin CC), which is a subset of Common Cartridge developed to package Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI) Links, Web Links, and metadata.
Import course components from either a Learning Object Repository (LOR) or a course package which includes Brightspace Package, Common Cartridge, and more.
About copying course components between org units
The Copy Components from another Org Unit option enables you to copy quizzes, content, grade items, discussion forums, assignments folders, courses with S3 model configurations, and nearly every other type of component from another course offering or a course offering’s parent template. 
You can use the copy components feature to: 
Reuse components created in a previous course offering. 
Add components created by your peers into your own course offering. 
Set up standard components inside a course template and copy them into a new course offering each time a course is re-offered.
Copy courses with S3 model configurations
Include the selected course as an additional historic course
Requirements to copy course components between org units
Depending on your role in your organization, you require one or both of the following course copy permissions: 
Copy Components into Org Unit
Copy Components out of Org Unit. 
These two separate permissions offer granular control over copying course components and enable work flows associated with parent content (in a course offering or parent template org unit). 
Example
An organization has a Science Course that is intended as a course that instructors can copy from, but not modify:
Instructors can copy common course components from Science Course to other science courses, for example, Science 101 and Science 202
Jane has two roles: Reviewer role in Science Course, and Instructor role in Science 101 and Science 202. The Reviewer role only has the Copy Components out of Org Unit permission applied.The Instructor role only has the Copy Components into Org Unit permission applied.
In Science Course, as a Reviewer role, Jane cannot see the option to Copy Course Components in Content or Course Admin. She cannot copy any components into the Science Course. 
In Science 101, as an Instructor role, Jane can see the options to Copy Course Components. When she searches for courses to copy, she can see Science Course; however, she cannot see Science 202.
Note: These permissions also affect the Copy From Parent Template option in Copy Course Components. This option is only visible if the instructor is enrolled in the parent template with a role that has the Copy Components out of Org Unit permission at the template level.
You must be enrolled in both offerings. 
You need to be enrolled in and have access to the parent template to copy components from the parent into a course offering. Note that all copied intelligent agents are disabled by default, unless your administrator has disabled the d2l.Tools.IntelligentAgents.DisableAgentsOnCopy configuration variable.
To copy courses with S3 model configurations, you must enable the Student Success System at the instance and org level.
You can also copy components into a course template, and you can create standard components within a template and then copy them into the template’s associated course offerings.
A validation logic step is also included in the copy process.  To help reduce  duplicate objects and cleanup from the copy process, the validation logic informs you if you have previously copied from the source course.
Concerns when copying course components
The following table addresses some common concerns around copying course components between org units:
Common concerns when copying course components between Org Units.

Concern


Answer


Overwriting and duplicating content 


The only components you might overwrite are course files. Course files are overwritten if one of the files being copied has the same name as an existing file. No other components are overwritten. 
For example, if you have three checklists in your current course offering, and copy two checklists from another offering, you will now have a total of five checklists in the current offering. This is true even if the components are identical. If you are copying components from the same source multiple times, be careful not to copy the same items more than once or you will create duplicates.


User privacy might be compromised when copying course components


User data is not copied. For example, if you copy the discussions component, only the forums and topics are copied, not the posts inside the topics. Similarly, if you copy Assignments folders or quizzes, user submissions and quiz attempts are not copied. 


Links and associations between components 


D2L recommends that you copy all components between courses to ensure you maintain all desired associations, and then delete any undesired material in the new course. 
If you are copying linked or associated components, you must copy all of the related components at the same time. For example, if a discussion topic has release conditions based on the results of a quiz, you must copy all three components—discussions, quizzes, and release conditions—at the same time. Similarly, if you have a quiz that is associated with a grade item, be sure to copy both the quiz and the grade item at the same time. As long as the associated components are copied together, links between them are retained. 
To copy release conditions, you must select the Release Conditions component. 

Special considerations when copying course components
When you are copying course components, ensure that you have considered the following implications or associated tasks.
Implications and associated tasks of copying course components.

Component


Notes


Competencies


Competencies, learning objectives, and associated activities are copied. 


Content


Does not include files or content display settings; you must select these as separate components. Be sure to copy all course files used in the course as well as the content topics or only the content topic structure is copied. 


Checklist


Due dates for checklist items are not changed when you copy them.


Groups and Sections


The new course does not automatically enroll groups and sections. You must enroll users yourself. 


Navbars


If you have modified the names of any tools, you must also copy the tool names.


Release Conditions


Only release conditions that reference or are attached to other components are copied at the same time as the component. For example, if a quiz has a release condition that refers to a content topic, the release note is only copied if both the quiz and the content topic are copied at the same time. If you copy release conditions without selecting any other component, there is no action.

Components for Import/Export/Copy
The following table displays which components from Brightspace can be imported, exported, or copied between courses.
List of components that can be imported, exported, or copied.
Component
Copy
Import
Export
Announcements
Yes
Yes
Yes
Assignments
Yes
Yes
Yes

Attendance Registers

Yes
No
No
Awards
Yes
No
No
Calendar Events
Yes
Yes
Yes
Chats
No
No
No
Checklists
Yes
Yes
Yes
Competencies
Yes
Yes
Yes
Content
Yes
Yes
Yes
Content Display Settings
Yes
No
No
Content Metadata
No
Yes
No
Course Files
Yes
Yes
Yes
Course Appearance
Yes
Yes
Yes
Discussions
Yes
Yes
Yes
External Links
Yes
Yes
Yes
FAQs
Yes
Yes
Yes
Forms
Yes
No
No
Glossary
Yes
Yes
Yes
Grade Settings
Yes
No
No
Grades
Yes
Yes
Yes
Groups
Yes
Partial. Groups with automatic enrollment cannot be imported.
Partial. Groups with automatic enrollment cannot be exported.
Homepages
Yes
Partial. The Homepage's name is imported and set to associate to an existing Homepage if the names match.
Partial. The Homepage's name is exported to associate to an existing Homepage where possible.
Learning Outcomes
Yes
Partial. Import available for ASN outcomes but not locally authored or program authored outcomes.
Partial. Export available for ASN outcomes but not locally authored or program authored outcomes
Intelligent Agents
Yes
Yes
Yes
Links
Yes
No
No
LTI Links
Yes
Yes
Yes
LTI TPs
Yes
No
No
Navbars
Yes
Partial. The Navbar's name is imported and set to associate to an existing Homepage if the names match.
Partial. The Navbar's name is exported to associate to an existing Homepage where possible.
Question Library
Yes
Yes
Yes
Quizzes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Release Conditions
Yes
Yes
Yes
Rubricsr
YesYesYesRubric Associations
Yes
Yes
Yes
Self Assessments
Yes
Yes
Yes
Surveys
Yes
Yes
Yes
Tool Names
Yes
No
No
Widgets
Yes
No
No
About exporting course components
You can export components from your course offering to a file. This allows you to reuse these components in another learning management system, including another Brightspace, or to store the components and then re-import them into another course offering or template at a later date. 
Components are exported to an IMSCP-compliant zip file, a standard file format based on the IMS Content Packaging specification. This means you should be able to reuse these components in any learning management system that supports this format. 
You can export course components from the organization level, except for files in the organization or shared files areas. 
The following table addresses some common concerns around exporting course components:
Common concerns when exporting course components.

Concern


Answer


User privacy might be compromised when exporting course components


User data is not copied. For example, if you copy the discussions component, only the forums and topics are copied, not the posts inside the topics. Similarly, if you copy assignment submissions folders or quizzes, user submissions and quiz attempts are not copied. 


Links and associations between components 


Associations between components will not be exported (for example, release conditions). The IMS Content Packaging specification, which the format for export files is based on, does not support these associations. 

What course components can be exported?
Announcements
Assignments
Calendar
Checklist
Competencies
Content
Course files
Discussions
External links
FAQ
Glossary
Grades (except calculated grade items)
Gradebook (not Personal Display or ePortfolio Artifacts options)
Navbar templates (not navbars)
Question Library
Quizzes
Release conditions and any associations
Rubrics
Self Assessments
Surveys




--------------------------------------------------


Import, export, or copy course components

You can import, export, or copy course components. Examples of course components are assignments, discussion topics, quizzes, and more. For more information about types of course components and packages available for import, refer to About Import/Export/Copy Components.
Import course components
If you import course components with names that already exist in the course, or you import multiple components with the same name, duplicate names appear; they are not overwritten. For example, if your course contains a discussion topic called Exam Review and you import a course package that contains a discussion topic called Exam Review, your course will contain two topics called Exam Review. When importing a grade scheme, a scheme not associated to a grade item within the course offering is only copied if the grade scheme is unique (i.e. there are no duplicates which match on name and ranges).Note: When importing a course, if you previously had text in the quiz Introduction field, this text is automatically appended to the quiz Description field. 
To import course components
Navigate to a course that you want to import components into.
On the navbar, click Course Admin > Import/Export/Copy Components.
On the Import/Export/Copy Components page, select Import Components.
Figure: Locate the Import Components option.
Click Start.
From the Import Course Package dialog, click Upload to select the file you want to import.Note: Scroll down on the Import Course Package dialog to review information about course packages and what is supported.
Choose from one of the following:Click Import All Components to begin the import.Click Advanced Options to access additional options before importing course components.
To review and manage course dates, click Review and Manage Dates.
View Course Import history
Users can view the history of course import attempts for courses in a specific org unit. From the Import/Export/Copy tool on Course Admin, users can view the Course Import History page, which includes the following information for each course import attempt:
the original package name
status of the import
user who created the import job
the timestamp for the import attempt
To view the Course Import History

In Course Admin, click Import/Export/Copy Components.


On the Import section of the page, click View Import History. 

Figure: The View Import History option enables you to view import logs for specific components.


From the list, click View Import Log for the package you want to view.

 Figure: The View Import Log is available to view for all components imported into the course


The log displays the import results in the order of operations. After reviewing the log, use the navigation breadcrumbs to navigate back to the Course Import History page.

Export course components
You can also export components of your course as a course package.
To export course components
In the course offering containing the components you want to copy, on the navbar, click Course Admin > Import/Export/Copy Components.
Select one of the following options:Export as Brightspace PackageExport as Common CartridgeExport as Thin Common Cartridge
Click Start.
In the Select Components to Export section, to export all components, select the Select All Components check box or select the check box for the particular components you want to export. 
To export only certain items from a component, select the Select individual items to export radio button. Figure: You can select individual components, as well as individual items from that component for export.Note: If you chose Select individual items to export for any component in the previous step, the Select Items page appears. This page lists all of the items and any sub-items contained in the current component. Otherwise, the Confirm Components to Export page appears. To view sub-items, click the + Expand icon next to an item. Select the individual items and sub-items you want to export and click Next. When you have finished selecting individual items from components, the Confirm Components to Export page appears. 
Click Continue. 
The Export started dialog displays to confirm the export is underway.
Click Done.
When the export package is ready for download, a notification is generated and can be accessed from the bell icon in the navigation bar.
Click the Export finished notification message. This directs you back to the Import/Export/Copy Components tool in your course.
Click the Click here to download the export Zip package link.
Note: The Bulk Course Export file naming convention now includes the course offering code to make files more identifiable.
Watch how to export course components

Export and import course packages containing SCORM objects across orgs
You can export and import course packages containing SCORM objects across orgs. For example, when you export a course containing SCORM objects from Org A, copies of the SCORM objects are added to the exported course package. The end result is a course package available for import and SCORM objects with all references to the SCORM objects retained within the original course.
When you import the course package into Org  B, the SCORM objects are added into the org and re-linked to the imported course so references are not broken (the physical copy SCORM objects now exist in Org B, separate from Org A, where the course package was exported from). As a result, any instructor with the Can insert new SCORM objects permission for a course can access the SCORM objects that were copied into the imported course.
Note:
If a course contains multiple links to a single SCORM object, the object is exported multiple times, once for each link, and included as a copy in the exported course package. When importing the course package, the package is imported multiple times, once for each link.
Bulk Course Copy, Bulk Course Export, and Bulk Course Create also support this functionality.            
Copy course components
Your ability to copy course components between course offerings is determined by assigned permissions and enrollment in course offerings and parent templates. 
Important: To mitigate the risk that large courses may result in timeout failures for users, the Copy Course Components job functions as an asynchronous job. You can view the progress of the copying job by clicking the View History link.
To copy course components
Navigate to a course that you want to copy course components into.
On the navbar, click Course Admin > Import/Export/Copy Components.
Do one of the following:Select Copy Components from another Org Unit. Click Search for offering and locate the course offering containing the components you want to copy. Click Add Selected.Select Copy Components from Parent Template to copy components from the course template the current course offering belongs to. 
Do one of the following: To copy all course components, click Copy All Components. D2L recommends that you copy all components between courses to ensure you maintain all desired associations, and then delete any undesired material in the new course. To specify the components you want to copy, click Select Components. Select your components. To see details for course components, click the Show the current course components link, then click the View Detail icon beside a component to see existing items. For those course components that provide the option to include associated files, D2L recommends leaving the option turned on. Click Continue.Select the Offset all dates of copied components check box and specify the days and hours that the dates should be offset by or calculate the range between two dates.Click Finish.Note: If you encounter issues with the Include associated files option and want to remove it, contact D2L Support to ask them to turn off the D2L.LE.Conversion.Features.ICopyAssociatedFilesFeature feature toggle.
Do one of the following:To copy another package, click Copy Another Package.To see the results of your copy, click View Content.To review and manage course dates, click Review and Manage Dates.
Notes: 
If you copied a course with S3 model configurations, the course is listed in the Student Success System Administration page (Admin Tools > Student Success System). 
Now when you copy groups to courses, the group setup (grade item, assessment option, and so on) is also copied over. 
A validation logic step is included in the copy process.  To help reduce  duplicate objects and cleanup from the copy process, the validation logic informs you if you have previously copied from the source course.
For information on the Student Success System permissions, refer to How does Brightspace Student Success System work?
Watch how to copy course components

Adding a course image  to an existing course template
Although you cannot directly add an image to a course template, you can import an image from an existing course into the course template. After you have created a course that includes the image you want to use, you can use the Copy Components function to add the image to your course template.
Note: The course banner image file does not automatically appear in the form elements when you copy it; however, you can view the image file in the Manage Files. 
In the Manage Courses tool, on the Templates tab, click the existing template where you want to add the My Courses 	widget image.
Click Course Admin > Import/Export/Copy Components.
Select Copy Components from another Org Unit and click Search for Offering.
Click Select Components.
Select Course Appearance > Select individual items to copy. Note that you can view the course banner image from Manage files; however, it does not automatically appear in the form elements after you copy it. 
Click Continue.
Select the image you want to copy. 
Click Finish.
Create platform-independent packages of learning resources (IMS Common Cartridge)
The IMS Common Cartridge standard allows publishers and content providers to create platform-independent packages of resources (content, assessments, question libraries, discussions, etc.) building on existing IMS content and QTI quizzing packaging standards. Package creators can optionally protect the package, requiring users to authenticate with the creator using web services before importing or accessing protected resources. Common Cartridge was designed to provide a standard way to package and protect content, as opposed to each publisher or each learning management system creating a proprietary method of protection and enforcement.
For more detailed information on the Common Cartridge project and its role in the Digital Learning Connection, visit the 1EdTech website.
About importing IMS Common Cartridge packages
You can import IMS Common Cartridge packages and expand your course offerings to include a wide range of innovative, platform-independent, and diverse course content from publishers and content providers.
Importing an IMS Common Cartridge package follows the same process as importing other files of supported import formats. Importing a cartridge automatically creates the applicable content, quizzes, questions, etc. in Brightspace and makes them immediately available for use. Package creators have the option of protecting cartridges on import or forcing the user to enter an access code at the beginning of the import process.
How protected IMS Common Cartridge resources are handled
Any protected resource that imports from an IMS Common Cartridge package displays a  Protected icon beside it. When users first try to access a protected resource, they are prompted for an access code, which is distributed by the package creator. Entering the access code and accepting the license agreement initiates the electronic authorization with the package creator’s authorization web service and unlocks the resource for the user.
The user is not prompted to enter their access code when accessing additional protected content from the package until the authorization period ends. The length of the authorization period is determined by the package creator and changes from one package to another. If a course contains protected resources from multiple packages, users are typically prompted for authorization only once per protected package.
Protected resources can be copied between courses, but cannot be exported from Brightspace.
IMS Common Cartridge versions
Brightspace currently supports the following versions of IMS Common Cartridge: 
IMS Common Cartridge 1.0
IMS Common Cartridge 1.1
IMS Common Cartridge 1.2
IMS Common Cartridge 1.3 and IMS Thin Common Cartridge 1.3
The following table provides an overview of each version, including a summary of the features and any other technical details worth noting. 

IMS Common Cartridge version


Summary


Technical details


IMS Common Cartridge 1.0


In the resource metadata context, includes the higher education value.
Contains metadata for the intended user roles: Learner and Instructor. These are the user roles that can view the resource.
Contains the intendedUse attribute for Web Content Resources. This attribute must contain one of the following values: lessonplan, syllabus, or unspecified. 


The package file should have the extension .zip.
Cartridge manifest metadata must refer to version 1.0.0.


IMS Common Cartridge 1.1


Offers easy support and integration with IMS Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI) v1.0 resources. You can integrate rich learning applications or premium content with platforms or other systems from which applications can be launched, without additional customization.
In the resource metadata context, includes the following values: higher education, school, training, and other.
Adds metadata for the Mentor intended user role. 
The intendedUse attribute for Web Content Resources is optional in this Cartridge version.


IMS Common Cartridge 1.1 supports LTI links through Brightspace User Interface, Bulk Course Create (BCC), and Course Import API.
The package file should have the extension .imscc. This extension helps identify files that are likely to be Common Cartridges.
Users are notified in the processing logs when the resource is imported successfully; however, their intendedUse type is discounted.
Cartridge manifest metadata must refer to version 1.1.0.


IMS Common Cartridge 1.2


Includes metadata for curriculum standards, which provides the option to associate the cartridge, resource, or question item with zero or more curriculum standard identifiers, from one or more providers. Users can use any curriculum standard, provided that it supports unique identifiers. 
The intendedUse attribute for Web Content Resources offers a new attribute called Assignment.


Curriculum standards metadata is recognized in v1.2, but is not supported by Brightspace. As a result, it is discounted, and users are instead notified in the processing logs whether their data was imported successfully.
Common Cartridge specification has deprecated authorization to the Course Import workflow. D2L still supports it, but recommends that users use Learning Tools Interoperability (LTI) links to access remote/secure content.
Cartridge manifest metadata must refer to version 1.2.0.


IMS Common Cartridge 1.3


Allows you to import multiple question banks within a single cartridge.
Provides the ability to specify Common Cartridge XML descriptions within an imsmanifest.xml file, which are imported by Brightspace.
Provides the option to add metadata to LTI links. In Brightspace, this metadata is incorporated into the content topic so that it can point to the LTI link.
 


Question banks have no titles, so they are categorized as "Section 1", "Section 2", and so on, in Brightspace. Question banks can be translated into any language that D2L supports.
For multiple imports of multiple question banks, section numbering does not increment; it is constrained to the number of banks within the package. For example, if users import a package containing two question banks, and then again with only a single question bank, the following occurs:

Multiple question banks in a question library
The following new features are not entirely supported by Brightspace:
ePub3, Interactive Whiteboard (IWB) and Accessible Portable Item Profile (APIP) file extensions for resources
Other unknown extensions for resources
Brightspace imports files with these extensions into the Manage Files tool, but does not create a content topic because the content type is not currently supported in the application. Users will receive a message about this in the processing logs.
Cartridge manifest metadata must refer to version 1.3.0.

To view IMS official specs on Common Cartridge for each version, refer to 1EdTech Common Cartridge® Specification.




--------------------------------------------------


About SIS Course Merge

SIS Course Merge allows you to merge multiple IPSIS-processed courses into one parent course offering.  The tool enhances course management efficiency and simplifies content delivery, by keeping classlist and section-specific tools separate while maintaining a unified course structure. This enables you to deliver tailored instruction to different sections while efficiently managing administrative tasks associated with enrollment and grading.
Access the SIS Course Merge tool
The SIS Course Merge tool is located in the Admin Tools menu.
Note: Administrators are required to turn on the SIS Course Merge tool and provide permissions to the roles that will be merging and unmerging courses or reviewing audit logs. 
To access SIS Course Merge
Log in to your Brightspace account as an instructor or administrator.
Click Admin Tools.
Under the SIS Integration area, click SIS Course Merge. 
Understand the merge process
To understand the merge process, consider the following example. You teach two classes: Biology 101 (Lecture A, Monday) with 21 enrollments and Biology 101 (Lecture B, Tuesday) with 31 enrollments. Using the SIS Course Merge tool, you can merge Section B into Course A to create a single merged course. Section B is recreated in Course A; the users are unenrolled from the original B section, and enrolled in a newly-created section in Course A. The original Course B is set to inactive. The image below shows a visual representation of this description. 

Figure: The workflow of merging two courses into one course offering with two sections.
For more information about merging your own courses, refer to Merging and unmerging courses using SIS Course Merge.
Understand the unmerge process
If you needed to unmerge the courses merged in the example above, you must use the SIS Course Merge unmerge process. In this example, all the users from Section B(2) in the merged course offering are unenrolled and re-enrolled in the original separate Section B. The B2 section in the merged course is deleted and moved to the Org Unit Editor recycle bin. Course B(1) is set to active again, as it was before the merge. 
The image below shows a visual representation of this description. 

Figure: The workflow of unmerging one course with two sections into two course offerings, each with one section.
Note: Any student submissions, grades, or learning outcomes created after you have merged the courses are not unmerged. 
For more information about unmerging your courses, refer to Merging and unmerging courses using SIS Course Merge.
 
 
 



--------------------------------------------------


Merging and unmerging courses using SIS Course Merge

SIS Course Merge allows course instructors the ability to select multiple course offerings that have been processed by the SIS integration (IPSIS) and merge them into a single parent course offering. The tool also offers the ability to unmerge those courses, and view audit logs.
Important:
Sections cannot be associated with multiple course offerings. It is recommended that if you use SIS Course Merge, you also ensure the Section Association tool is disabled; sections merged with one are not represented by the other.
User Progress is not copied in the course merge.
You cannot use both the IPSIS Section Association tool and SIS Course Merge tool; once a course is moved to the SIS Course Merge tool, you cannot go back to the IPSIS Section Association tool.
You cannot merge courses between source systems.
The SIS Course Merge tool can only be used for courses created using IPSIS. The merge process only merges the course shell, it does not include student submissions, grades, learning outcomes, or course content. Before you merge courses, consider the implications of the action, including potential risk of data loss caused by user actions. Use caution to prevent any unintended loss of content or user progress during the merging process. 
Merge courses using SIS Course Merge
Use the SIS Course Merge tool to merge selected courses.
Important: Before you merge courses, consider the implications of the action, including potential risk of data loss caused by user actions. Use caution to prevent any unintended loss of content or user progress during the merging process. 
To merge courses
In the Admin Tools menu, click SIS Course Merge.
Use the filters or browse to find and select the courses you want to merge.Figure: Search for and select the courses that you would like to merge. 
Click Merge Courses.
Select the course that you would like to merge selected courses into.Figure: Select a course to merge into from the Merge Courses page.

Click Merge. 

The selected courses are merged.
Unmerge courses using SIS Course Merge
Use the SIS Course Merge tool to unmerge selected courses.
Important: Before you merge courses, consider the implications of the action, including potential risk of data loss caused by user actions. Use caution to prevent any unintended loss of content or user progress during the merging process. 
To unmerge courses
In the Admin Tools menu, click SIS Course Merge.
Use the filters or browse to find and select the courses you want to unmerge.

Clear checkmarks from courses you want to remove from the merged course shell. 

Figure: Clear the checkboxes to unmerge courses. If you clear the parent course into which the other courses are merged, all courses are unmerged. 


Confirm your selections and click Unmerge. 

The unmerge action re-activates the original section and course offering and re-enrolls users into the original course and section. 
Review all course merge actions with the Audit Log
The SIS Course Merge Audit Log enhances your tracking and understanding of course merge activities with detailed merge and unmerge logs, user information, action timestamps, advanced search options, and expandable log entries for in-depth information.
To access the Audit Log
From the Admin Tools menu, click SIS Course Merge.
Click the Audit Log tab and do any of the following:Review all SIS Course merge actions under the Action column.Search for specific actions.Filter action results.
 



--------------------------------------------------


View your course using a different role

You can temporarily assume  the role of your students so you can see your course as they would. This can assist you in understanding how your course appears to your students  in Brightspace.
Note: You must have the Role Switch > See Role Switch permission granted to your role to view as another role. Contact your administrator for details.
To view your course using a different role
On the course minibar, click your username.
Click View as [role]. Once you select a role, your Brightspace instance displays as it would appear to that role.Figure: The View as option of the username menu.Figure: Your username when viewing as a selected role.
To switch back to your teacher  view, click your username and then click X next to Viewing as [role].Figure: Click X to switch back to your role.
If you have the required role permissions, you can also click Change to select from a list of roles to view.Figure: The Change option of the username menu.Note: The View as [role] options available to you are created and managed by your administrator. To Change the default View as option, you must have the Role Switch > Role Switch '[role name]' permission assigned to you. Your administrator must give you permissions for  each individual role.




--------------------------------------------------


About Learning Outcomes

Learning Outcomes impacts many tools in Brightspace. Before you start setting up your course to use standards and learning outcomes, review the introductory and setup content to understand the core concepts of Learning Outcomes and Competencies.
Important: Your Brightspace instance must have several configuration variables enabled and you must have several role permissions granted to successfully access and use Learning Outcomes. Contact your administrator for details.
What's the difference between Competencies and  Learning Outcomes
Note: For a feature-by-feature comparison of the Competencies and Learning Outcomes tools, see Comparing Competencies and Learning Outcomes. 
Brightspace allows you to use two separate tools that  provide similar features: 

Competencies


Learning Outcomes

Competencies
Competencies is a legacy tool that helps track information about the knowledge, skills, and abilities students acquire as they participate in classes or other learning experiences. Competencies can be used with the classic Content tool and ePortfolio.
Figure: The Competencies tool.
Use Competencies if the following list describes your Brightspace implementation:
You have clearly defined learning outcome statements at the course and the program level (across multiple courses)
You need aggregated data and reporting on the learning achievement of those learning outcomes 
Clients cannot use both Competencies and the Learning Outcomes in the same course. It is possible to continue using Competencies in some courses and use Learning Outcomes in others. If you are using one, all instances of the other are now hidden from view. For a new, empty shell course, both the Competency tool and Learning Outcomes tool appear in the Course Administration page. However, as soon as you decide to use the Learning Outcomes tool or the Competency tool, then the link to the other tool is hidden.
The Competency tool is considered to be in use when at least one learning objective is aligned to activities in the course. When this is the case, the Learning Outcomes tool is hidden on the Course Administration page.
Learning Outcomes
Learning Outcomes provides learning outcome alignment with achievement tracking. At the organization level, this tool allows you to define scales for measuring achievement.  At the program level, you can import or create outcomes that can be shared down to courses. At the course level, you can import or create new outcomes, align outcomes to course content in the New Content Experience, and integrate with Brightspace Portfolio, Quizzes, Discussions, Assignments, and Rubrics.
Note: The name of the Learning Outcomes tool and some menu items and links therein depend on the language term defined in the d2l.Languages.Terminology.LearningOutcomes configuration variable. Language term options include Standards, Expectations, Competencies, Objectives, or Outcomes. In this topic, assume the configuration variable is set to Standards. Also, you require specific role permissions to add or import standards from either the Standards tool or New Content Experience. Contact your administrator for details.
Figure: The Learning Outcomes tool with the configuration variable language term set to Standards.
Use Learning Outcomes if the following list describes your Brightspace implementation:
You have clearly defined learning outcome statements which align to purposes of curriculum mapping and assessment to discreet content topics or assessment activities.
You are using learning outcomes which are available from the Achievement Standards Network (ASN) or you can enter your outcomes into the Learning Outcomes tool.
You are interested in providing visibility to learners of their performance related to assessment activities aligned to learning outcomes.
The Learning Outcomes tool is considered to be in use when an intent list is created by importing or creating at least one learning outcome in the course. When this is the case, the Competencies tool is hidden on the Course Administration page, and the Objectives Progress column in Class Progress is no longer visible.
Understand the Learning Outcomes workflow
Learning Outcomes  supports  outcomes-based education methodology in your courses. The Learning Outcomes tool provides this ability by using the settings and options you can configure in other Brightspace tools, such as Rubrics, Assignments, and User Progress, to create an overarching solution. At a high level, the solution uses the following workflow:
Define an achievement scale.
Create a Program and program-level outcomes, if needed.
Populate a course with outcomes imported from a program, from ASN, or manually created.
Align outcomes to course activities and content.
Assess student work against outcomes.
Track learner progress against outcomes as the course progresses.




--------------------------------------------------


Add or import standards

You can add or import Standards  to map course materials to learning expectations. Add or import standards using either the Standards tool or the New Content Experience.
Note: The name of the Learning Outcomes tool and some menu items and links therein depend on the language term defined in the d2l.Languages.Terminology.LearningOutcomes configuration variable. Language term options include Standards, Expectations, Competencies, Objectives, or Outcomes. In this topic, assume the configuration variable is set to Standards. Also, you require specific role permissions to add or import standards from either the Standards tool or New Content Experience. Contact your administrator for more details.
Add or import standards using the Standards tool
You can use the Standards tool to add or import standards.
To add or import standards using the Standards tool
From your course navbar, click Course Admin.
Under Assessment, click Standards.Figure: The Standards tool displayed on the Course Administration page.
Do one of the following:Click Add Standard to manually create a new standard, then add a standard description and click Save.Click Import from Program to import a standard from the Program standards. Select the program and the standard from the available options, then click Import Selected Standards.Click Import from Achievement Standards Network to import a standard from ASN. Select filters for Jurisdiction, Subject, Framework, and Education Level as appropriate. Select a standard from the Available Standards list, then click Import Selected Standards.
If you want to add more standards beneath the one you just created, click the More Actions menu beside the standard and select Add Lower Level Standard.
You have added or imported standards using the Standards tool.
Add or import standards using the New Content Experience
You can also add or import standards while you build your course in the New Content Experience (Lessons). 
To add or import standards using the New Content Experience
In the New Content Experience (Lessons), click the Standards gauge. Figure: The Standards gauge in the New Content Experience.Note: This gauge can also be called Expectations, Competencies, Objectives or Outcomes depending on the language term defined by that associated configuration variable in Brightspace. Contact your administrator for details.
From the Standards Coverage dialog, click Add or Remove Standards.
Do one of the following:
Click Add Standard to manually create a new standard, then add a standard description and click Save.Click Import from Program to import a standard from the Program standards. Select the program and the standard from the available options, then click Import Selected Standards.Note: This button does not appear if there are no programs created in your organization.Click Import from Achievement Standards Network to import a standard from ASN. Select filters for Jurisdiction, Subject, Framework, and Education Level as appropriate. Select a standard from the Available Standards list, then click Import Selected Standards.
If you want to add more standards beneath the one you just created, click the More Actions menu beside the standard and select Add Lower Level Standard.
Figure: Standards for a course outlined on the Standards for this course page.
Once you have added or imported the standards, they appear in a list in the Standards Coverage dialog. You can now choose from the lowest-level standards to align and assess against.



--------------------------------------------------


Align learning outcomes to course content and activities

Align Learning Outcomes to content topics and assessment activities. Align outcomes to content topics to view coverage from a curriculum mapping perspective. Align outcomes to assessment activities to provide a view of student achievement and performance using the Outcomes Progress pages in User Progress.
Note: The name of the Learning Outcomes tool and some menu items and links therein depend on the language term you have defined in the d2l.Languages.Terminology.LearningOutcomes configuration variable. In this topic, assume the configuration variable is set to Standards. Contact your administrator for details.
Align and access standards
It is possible to align content to an outcome for content coverage and curriculum mapping purposes.  Since content is not assessed, content aligned to outcomes do not contribute to the learning outcome achievement score. When a student meets or achieves an outcome, it is driven by assessments aligned to the outcomes. Assessment activity evaluations are the only items that appear in the Grades Mastery View tab and in student's Outcomes Progress page. 
The following table shows the tools in the Brightspace where you can use Rubrics and Standards:

Tool

Can be used to align Standards
Can be used to assess Standards
Suggested Level of Achievement is available
Assignments
Yes
Yes
No; planned for a future release
Discussions
Yes
Yes
No; planned for a future release
Brightspace Portfolio
Yes
Yes
No
Rubrics
Yes, to Rubric criteria
Yes, to Rubric criteria 
Yes
Quiz Questions
Yes
Yes
Yes
Quizzes
No; planned for future release.
No; planned for future release.
No; planned for a future release
Grade Items
No; planned for a future release.
Yes, using a rubric aligned with standards. Direct assessment of learning outcomes is planned for a future release.
N/A
Note: Using the New Content Experience, you can share rubrics from higher organization levels.
Create an achievement scale
Before you can align learning outcomes to Rubric criteria, you must create an Achievement Scale using the Learning Outcomes tool. Achievement Scales define a student's performance using terms such as Does not meet Expectations, Approaching Expectations, and Exceeds Expectations. Achievement scales can be defined by both words, colors to be used in student outcome graphs, and percentages.
Note: While it is possible to create more than one achievement scale, it is only possible to use one in your organization. You must specifically identify a default scale that represents the currently active scale within your organization. 
To create an achievement scale

From your course navbar, click the Admin Tools icon and select Standards.


From the Learning Outcomes page, click Create Scale.


From the New Scale page, do the following:Figure: The New Scale page.

Enter a Name for your new achievement scale.


Select the Number of levels in the scale.


Select Map levels to percentage scores. This associates each level in the scale with a percentage range value.


Under Levels of achievement, configure the color, name, and percentage range of each level.



Click Save and Close.

Your new achievement scale is created. Important: You can set your new achievement scale as the default scale for your organization. However, setting a new scale as the default removes all previous assessments and evaluations. To set this achievement scale as the default for your organization, click the actions arrow next to your new achievement scale and select Set as default. 
Align learning outcomes to rubric criteria
Rubrics are used to evaluate an activity or item based on a predefined set of criteria. They help ensure that activities and items are evaluated fairly and consistently. 
You can align learning outcomes to rubric criteria, enabling you to demonstrate how assessment criteria map to a student's demonstration of learning outcomes in an activity (discussion topic or assignment). For students, this makes it easier to understand their progress against a learning outcome and locate areas for improvement.
Align learning outcomes to rubric criteria during the rubric creation process, or edit an existing rubric to add alignment standards if that rubric has not yet been used in an evaluation. 
After attaching the completed rubric to an activity, the learning outcomes are visible from the Learning Outcomes tab in the activity.
Important: Before you align outcomes to rubric criteria, ensure you have created an achievement scale for your organization that measures achievement across all of the assessment activities aligned to outcomes. For example, achievement levels might include Does Not Meet Expectations, Meets Expectations, and Exceeds Expectations. You must also add or import standards into your course. Refer to the Add or import standards topic for details.
Learning outcomes indirectly aligned to an activity using a rubric cannot be removed from the activity unless they are removed from the rubric.
Learning outcomes that are indirectly aligned using a rubric can be directly assessed, like any other outcome. 
Removing a rubric containing learning outcomes does not affect any previously assessed learning outcomes. For example, if you assess a student in a learning outcome and then remove the rubric, the assessment is hidden; it is not deleted. Re-adding the rubric makes the outcome assessment visible again.
You can attach a rubric with learning outcomes aligned to learning objectives or competencies. However, the two systems do not have any interaction, and they cannot be used simultaneously within the same course offering.
You can use learning outcomes in discussion topics.
To align learning outcomes to Rubric criteria
From Course Admin, click Rubrics.
Do one of the following:Create a new rubric and add criteria.Edit an existing rubric that contains criteria which has not yet been used in evaluating student work.
On the criterion where you want to align a standard, click Standards.Figure: The Edit Rubric page with Standards highlighted.
Expand any parent outcomes to view the child outcomes.
 On the Browse Standards dialog, select the standards you want to align and click Align Standard. The added standards appear below the criterion, tagged with the information about the standard. The rubrics changes are automatically saved.Figure: The Browse Standards page with the Align Standards option highlighted.
To see the full text of the standard, hover over the standard tag. Figure: A rubric with standards listed in different level categories.
Click Close.
You have aligned selected learning outcomes to your rubric success criteria.
Set up rubrics to generate suggestions for standards assessments
For assessment suggestions to appear, ensure the following are true:
Your achievement scale for the standard uses percentage thresholds
The d2l.Tools.LearningOutcomes.LoaSuggestions configuration variable is turned on (to provide suggestions).
A rubric that has standards aligned to one or more criteria to an assignment or discussion topic.
To set up rubrics to generate assessment suggestions
Ensure that the d2l.Tools.LearningOutcomes.LoaSuggestions configuration variable is enabled.
Create an achievement scale and set it to be the default.
From within the course, use the Outcomes tool to create or import learning outcomes.
Create a rubric with criteria or edit an unused rubric with existing criteria. For more information.
Add learning outcomes to at least one criterion level of the rubric.
Map achievement scale to rubric criteria
To map the achievement scale to rubric criteria, ensure that the following prerequisites are complete:
The d2l.Tools.LearningOutcomes.LoaSuggestions configuration variable is turned on. 
A default achievement scale has been created
Learning outcomes have been created or imported into the course. 
When these prerequisites are met, achievement scales are mapped to rubric levels as described in the following scenarios:
The achievement scale is not mapped to percentage ranges and the rubric is text-only.
The achievement scale is not mapped to percentage ranges and the rubric is points-based or custom points-based
The achievement scale is mapped to percentage ranges and the rubric is text-only. In this case, the Manually map achievement levels to rubric levels is automatically selected under the Learning Outcomes options, but the option cannot be changed.
Note: In the previous scenarios, you can manually adjust the markers, if appropriate.
In the following scenario, achievement level markers will not automatically appear, but achievement suggestions are determined based on actual learner scores:
The achievement scale is mapped to percentage ranges and the rubric has points-based or custom points-based scoring. Alignment mapping is not necessary and achievement markers are not displayed. You can manually adjust the calculated achievement levels (if needed).
Note: In this case, Automatically map achievement levels to percentage scores is selected in the Rubric options (on the Edit Rubric page); however, you can change that to Manually map achievement levels to rubric levels. If you enable the Manually map achievement levels to rubric levels option, the achievement markers appear within the rubric to manually override the calculated mapping for this individual rubric (if necessary).

Figure: The Learning Outcomes on the Rubric Options page.
Copy learning outcomes
You can copy learning outcomes between courses within the same Brightspace instance. When learning outcomes exist in a course offering, then they appear as one of the possible elements that you can copy between course offerings. When you copy learning outcomes, all related aspects of the Learning outcomes are also copied, including 

Assignments, discussions, quiz questions, and rubrics


Alignments to content topics


Locally authored outcomes


imported outcomes from programs or ASN

The target course in the copy process shows the outcomes as links to the source course. If you make changes to the description of the outcome in course-level locally-authored outcomes, then those text changes display in the target course. If only the target course requires text changes, you must break the link to the source course before you make the changes.
Importing and exporting learning outcomes
If you export a course containing outcomes from ASN to a Brightspace format course package, then those ASN outcomes and their respective outcome alignments are exported with the course package and imported into another Brightspace instance. Non-aligned outcomes are not imported; the import rules apply only to aligned activities. ASN outcomes automatically appear in the course intent list of the destination course; however, you must manually re-add any desired course- authored outcomes to the course intent list.
Note: Currently, course-authored outcomes are not available for export or import with a course package. These features are scheduled for a future release.
Summary of copy, import, and export expected behaviors
The following table describes the behavior when outcome objects are copied, imported, or exported.
Item
Copy between courses in the same Brightspace environment
Export in a Brightspace course package
Import from a Brightspace course package
Outcome objects imported from ASN
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Exported
Supported, automatically available in the intent list for the target course.
Outcome objects imported from Programs
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Exported
Must be manually re-imported (re-selected) in the target course.
Outcome objects locally created in the course
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Not yet supported
Not yet supported
The following table describes the behavior when outcome objects aligned to specific tools function are copied, imported, or exported.
Tool the outcome object is aligned to 
Copy between courses in the same Brightspace environment
Export in a Brightspace course package
Import from a Brightspace course package
Assignments
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Exported
Imported and visible after the outcomes have been added to the course
Discussions
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Exported
Imported and visible after the outcomes have been added to the course
Quiz questions
Fully copied and visible in the target course
ASN Outcome alignments are only exported. No user-authored outcomes are exported
Imported and visible after the ASN outcomes have been added to the course.
Rubrics
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Exported
Imported and visible after the outcomes have been added to the course
Content topics
Fully copied and visible in the target course
Exported
Imported and visible after the outcomes have been added to the course
Assessment methods available for a discussion
Starting with Brightspace 20.19.09, any grades you enter in Grade Book for discussion grade items  are also synchronized back to Discussions. This change ensures data consistency between Discussions and Grade Book.
Note: Currently, Discussion grades are not synchronized when the Discussion tool is updated by the Brightspace API or when Grade Book is exported and imported.
The following calculation methods are available to assess discussions.

Calculation method


Definition


Average post score


This calculation method averages all of the post scores included per user.


Maximum post score


This calculation method identifies the highest score of all the post scores included per user.


Minimum post score


This calculation method identifies the lowest score of all the post scores included per user.


Mode post score - Highest on multiple


This calculation method looks at the frequency of scores on posts, then selects the highest occurrence of a score per user. Once it picks the frequency, the system looks to see if multiple scores occur at that frequency. If not, it assigns that score to the user. If there are multiple scores with the same frequency, it will choose the highest of those scores. For example, if a score of 7 occurs 2 times, a score of 8 occurs 3 times, and a score of 9 occurs 3 times, the system will choose the frequency 3 and the score of 9.


Mode post score - Lowest on multiple


This calculation method looks at the frequency of scores on posts, then selects the highest occurrence of a score per user. Once it picks the frequency, the system looks to see if multiple scores occur at that frequency. If not, it assigns that score to the user. If there are multiple scores with the same frequency, it will choose the lowest of those scores. For example, if a score of 7 occurs 2 times, a score of 8 occurs 3 times, and a score of 9 occurs 3 times, the system will choose the frequency 3 and the score of 8.


Sum of post scores


This calculation method sums up all the scores on posts within a topic.

Configure a topic for assessment
On the navbar, click Discussions.
From the context menu of the topic you want to configure for assessment, click Edit Topic. 
In the Assessment tab, configure your topic for assessment by doing any the following:If you want your assessments to count toward the student's Final Grade, and you want the student to see their assessment score and feedback in the Grades tool, associate the topic to a numeric grade item. Use the Grade Item drop down list to attach an existing numeric grade item or click New Grade Item to create a new numeric grade item. Note that you can only associate numeric grade items with discussion topics. Give the topic a Score Out Of to evaluate the overall score of the student's contributions to the topic.Click the Add Rubric button to attach one or more existing rubrics, or click the Create Rubric in New Window link to create a new rubric for the topic. You can assess one or more rubrics for each student in the course, and students can view completed, published rubrics in Class Progress, Grades, Content, Discussions, and User Progress.If you want to score individual posts, select the Allow assessment of individual posts check box, then select your calculation method to allow assessment of individual posts in the topic. When this check box is not selected, you can give a single overall score to the student for their participation.If you want to score all the posts within a topic, select the Allow assessment of individual posts check box, and then select the Sum of post scores calculation method. If you select Allow assessment of individual posts, the Include unassessed posts in the calculated topic score as zero check box becomes available. When you select this check box, the system automatically assigns a score of zero to individual posts that you have not yet evaluated, and the overall score for the student is calculated from the score of all posts, including those not evaluated with a score of zero. Selecting this check box does not affect the Sum of post scores option. If you do not select the Include unassessed posts in the calculated topic score as zero check box, posts without a score are ignored and do not factor into the overall score.
Click Save and Close.
Align learning outcomes to discussion topics
You can align learning outcomes to discussion topics, enabling you to map discussion topic activities to a learner's demonstration of learning outcomes in a discussion. By viewing the learning outcomes that align to discussion topics, learners can  understand what they need to demonstrate in discussion topic activities.
Note:To use learning outcomes, your administrator must define an achievement scale for your organization that measures achievement in a course. Adding a rubric to a discussion topic is optional; it is not required for assessing learning outcomes in a discussion thread.
To align learning outcomes to a discussion topic
From your course navbar, click Discussions.
From the context menu of the topic you want to associate with learning objectives, click  Edit Topic. 
Click the Standards tab and click Add Standards. Figure: The Edit Topic page for a discussion topic with the Standards tab highlighted and displaying.
Select the  learning outcomes you want to align to the discussion topic and click Align Standards.Note: If a rubric with aligned outcomes is attached to the discussion topic, then the standards associated with the rubric appear on this tab.  Using the Add button directly aligns learning outcomes to the discussion topic. In the image related to step 3, above, there are already outcomes directly aligned to the discussion, and not related to the rubric. Figure: The Browse Standards page with the Align Standards option highlighted.
Click Close.
The Standards tab updates to show the standards aligned to the rubric and associated with this activity using the rubric in comparison to those which are directly aligned to the discussion topic.
Note: To assess the standards you just aligned to the discussion topic you must do one of the following:
Link the discussion to a grade item
Attach a rubric to the discussion, and evaluate against the rubric
If you don’t link the discussion to a grade item or evaluate with a rubric, the option to assess the standards does not appear.
Align standards to Brightspace Portfolio evidence
As part of their course work, a student can upload any evidence to their Brightspace Portfolio. After the evidence has been uploaded, an instructor can associate standards with the evidence.
Note: Refer to the Collect evidence of learning with Brightspace Portfolio topic for more details.
To align standards to Brightspace Portfolio evidence
In the Portfolio App, on the Class Portfolios tab, select a learner’s name from the list. 
Do one of the following:Select the learner evidence you want to reviewIf you have turned on the Evidence Approval Queues (in Portfolio Settings), you can select the learner from the Approve Evidence tab and then select the evidence.
From the learner’s Portfolio evidence, under the Student & Parent/Guardian area, click Add Standards.
Select the check boxes for the learning outcomes you want to align to the Portfolio evidence and click Add.
The standards appear in the sidebar, ready to be assessed.
Align learning outcomes to quiz questions
When you align a quiz question to a learning outcome, the learning outcome is aligned to all uses of that question within quizzes in the same course offering. It is possible to bulk align to all questions within a question pool or section.In addition, you can align learning outcomes  to question pools. If you align a question pool to an outcome, all questions in that pool are aligned in all incidences of the question inside and outside the question pool. 
To align learning outcomes to quiz questions in the New Experience:
From the course navbar or Course Admin > Assessment, click Quizzes.
Click to open a quiz that already contains quiz questions.Figure: The Manage Quizzes tab with a sample quiz highlighted.
Select one or more questions or question pools to be aligned with standards, then click More Actions.Note: The More Actions drop-down menu does not activate until you have at least one item selected.Figure: The Questions page in the New Experience, with the More Actions drop-down menu highlighted.
	Click Align to Standards. Select the check boxes for the learning outcomes you want to align to the quiz questions and click Add. 
The associated standards now appear under each of the selected questions.
To remove learning outcome alignments on quiz questions 
Select one or more questions or question pools that are aligned with standards and click More Actions.
Click Align to Standards. Uncheck boxes for the learning outcomes you want to remove from the quiz questions and click Add. 
The associated standards are now removed from the question.
To align learning outcomes to quiz questions in the Classic Experience:
From the course navbar or Course Admin > Assessment, click Quizzes.
Click to open a quiz that already contains quiz questions.Figure: The Manage Quizzes tab with a sample quiz highlighted.
Click Add/Edit Questions.Figure: The Quiz Questions page in Classic Experience. The Add/Edit Questions button opens the a dialog box which lists the available questions.
Search for or browse to find one or more questions or question pools to be aligned with standards. Once selected, click More Actions.Note: The More Actions button does not appear until you have selected a question. Figure: The More Actions button displays the standards you can align to the selected question.
Click Align to Standards. Select the check boxes for the learning outcomes you want to align to the quiz questions and click Add.  The associated standards now appear under each of the selected questions.
Clear the check boxes for the previously selected quiz questions and repeat the process to align any additional quiz questions to appropriate standards.
When you have completed aligning questions to standards, click Back to Settings for <selected> quiz.
When a question in a quiz has a learning outcome aligned to it, an outcome tag appears next to the question in the Quiz Builder View and the Question Pool Editor. The Question Pool view also shows the cumulative list of all outcomes aligned to questions within the pool. 



--------------------------------------------------


Best practices for creating a Course Homepage

The course homepage is likely the first page your students see when they land in your course. Therefore it’s important to design the homepage with purpose in order to enhance the course experience. The goal is to place useful information in intuitive places rather than create a homepage so cluttered that your students struggle to find the relevant links and information.
What’s a widget?
A widget is an application, or a component of an application, that displays specific information or provides a specific way for a user to interact with the learning environment. This is usually as a shortcut; for example, a quick link to the introduction of the first module.
How do I Edit my Homepage?
For more information on how to edit your homepage layout or the widgets on it, refer to the System widgets topic.
Layout
When designing a homepage, the first step is to decide what layout to use. Brightspace allows up to three columns worth of space for you to work with:

A one-column layout is very similar to a typical web page design outside of Brightspace. It works well for things like banners, large visuals, and interactive or custom elements.


The two-column layout is also very common. You have the option of splitting the page in half, or into a one-third and two-thirds layout. The two-column layout tends to be the most versatile while providing sufficient real estate for the content.


The three-column layout is often used when trying to condense a lot of content into a single view. This gives a really crowded feeling, and in most cases we  recommend not using this layout, However, it might be applicable in some circumstances (for example, three similar lists of key dates, announcements, and resources).


Figure: The Select New Layout page. Select a layout by clicking the corresponding radio button and then click Update.
When thinking about the layout, also consider how long the homepage is and how much scrolling is required. Minimal scrolling reduces cognitive effort, makes the content more digestible, and helps your users more easily find what they need. However, don’t sacrifice a bit of scrolling for a three-column homepage just so everything is in view when the user logs in.
Note: When D2L’s Learning and Creative Services team designs homepages,  the basic layout is what is typically used. The large left panel and smaller right panel provides the right amount of space for the most commonly used widgets.
Visual Styling and Organization
Most organizations add the Banner by default when a new course is created. It is recommended that you keep this widget  to make a great first impression. Choose an image that suits your course content (D2L recommends an image size of 2400 by 960 pixels). 
The Banner is also responsive!

Figure: An example of a Course Homepage Banner.
Keep in mind how a user scans the page. Regardless of cultural reading patterns, users typically start in the top left and work their way right and down as they catch relevant words, so put your most important information where students scan first. The least looked at part of any web page is the bottom right.
Adding a course image banner that is not turned on by default
If your administrators do not configure the course image banner to be turned on by default, you may be able turn it on in the Course Offering Information page. You will need the Change Course Image and Banner Text permission enabled for your role to do so.
Course images are used for the My Courses Widget, the course image banner, and in Brightspace Pulse, and on all devices and screen resolutions. While the display size for the banner is 1170 by 200 pixels, it is recommended that the image you upload is 2400 by 960 pixels to ensure that the image you select displays clearly for all these scenarios. Images are automatically resized for the appropriate location and display. 
Navigate to Course Admin and select Course Offering Information.
Click Browse under the Course Image heading and select an option for the location of your image.Figure: Click the desired location to search for your course image.
Select your image.
Select Display the image in a banner on the course homepage.
Click Save.
Edit image titles on homepage banners
            Teachers with the appropriate permissions can change the homepage banner image titles. The title can be changed to the Org Unit Name, a custom value (such as Hello {FirstName}) or the title can be deleted and nothing displays in the banner.
Hover over or press Tab to enter the homepage banner to see the Banner Settings menu.
Click to open the menu and select Customize Banner Text.
Do one of the following:Click Org Unit Name and enter or edit the name. This is the default that appears in the banner. Click Custom to enter a custom value (such as Hello {FirstName}). To view information about what other strings you can use, click the inline help link. Click None to delete the current text and display no title on the banner.
Click Save.
Choosing your Widgets
A useful homepage is one that provides the exact information a user needs when they need it. Well-designed homepages should enhance the learning experience rather than frustrate the user.
An effective homepage should include widgets to serve two purposes: navigation and communication.
Navigation
Provide students with quick access to frequently-used course features:

Figure: An example of how the Homepage provides quick access to course features.

Use the Content Browser widget to allow quick access to modules and content topics. This takes the guesswork out of how to start learning.


The Updates widget is one that benefits both instructors and learners as it provides a snapshot of all work that requires attention. It can notify users of new feedback, quizzes not yet attempted, unread discussion posts, and new emails, among others.

While it’s not a widget, also be selective about the links you have on the navbar and the order they appear in, from left to right (as per visual organization above). Are links in order of frequency or chronology of use?Are only those tools used in the course included?Are all links effectively and intuitively named? Note: To improve the Accessibility of your layout and meet Accessibility benchmarks, we recommend that the text display of a link is the same as the link destination.
Be sure to include Content, Grades (if this is a graded course), Class Progress, and whichever engagement and assessment tools you’re using (such as Quizzes or Assignments) at minimum.
Communication
Have a method to share up-to-date course information and just-in-time resources with your students' Announcements or Activity Feed serve as useful tools for sharing updates, new resources, course reminders, and more with the whole class at once. It is recommended to choose one of these two tools as they have overlapping features. Activity Feed incorporates a social experience and allows learners to comment on posts while Announcements is your more traditional Instructor-to-Class notification tool. 
Adding the Calendar widget is a great way to help learners to stay on top of due dates and other important course dates (such as drop deadlines, holidays, and more).

Figure: An example of a homepage that includes an announcement to communicate with users.
Pulling it all Together
With all of these options, how do you decide where to place different options on the page? Start with the navbar and decide what tools learners will access most frequently. We recommend Content be the first link.
If you opt for the two-column, basic layout, ensure your Banner is across the top. Place Announcements or Activity Feed in the left panel, so they are most visible each time a user logs in to your course. In the right panel, start with Content Browser then Updates and Calendar.
List of system widgets
System widgets are defined by the Brightspace platform. You cannot modify the contents of system widgets or delete them, but you can change where the widgets are located on your course homepage and customize their display options.

Widget


Description

Access Google Workspace
Allows users to access Google Workspace from the course homepage.
Activity Feed
Provides a central location for instructors to post messages and assignments. You can also provide links to course materials and external resources. The Activity Feed tool can be configured to support student comments on posts as well as student-initiated posts. 

Admin Tools


The Admin Tools widget displays all your available administrative links and provides easy access to the tools that you need to manage. The number of administrative links you can see in the Admin Tools widget is determined by your role’s permission settings in the Roles and Permissions tool.

Announcements
The Announcements widget communicates important updates and information to users. You can create Announcements items with formatted text, graphics, audio, and quicklinks. You can also choose the date range and conditions for a Announcements item's availability.
Auditors
Provides users with an Auditor role who have alignments to students with access to view their cross-course User Progress view without requiring the auditor to be enrolled into courses. 
Awards Leaderboard

The Awards Leaderboard is a customizable system widget that can be added to the homepages of course offerings or any shared homepage. It displays the top 10 users who have earned badges (Awards) in the course. Course administrators can configure the Awards leaderboard to display the learners with either the highest Number of Awards or Credits appearing at the top. Learners with the same number of awards/credits falling within the top 10 grouping are sorted by name in alphabetical order. 
This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.


Bookmarks


This widget is used to bookmark pages in course content. The bookmark widget is typically located on course offering homepages.


Calendar


The Calendar widget consists of a mini-calendar and a list of upcoming events. It displays all events created by instructors and administrators for the applicable month. Clicking on a day in the widget's mini-Calendar filters the event list to only display events for that day. Clicking on an event in the widget takes you to the event in the Calendar tool.


Capture


The Capture widget enables you to access the recording and presentation functions of Brightspace Capture Encoder, and provides direct links to all Capture presentations in a course to learners. 


Content Browser


The Content Browser widget enables you to browse course content, view recently visited topics, and view bookmarked topics from your course homepage. You can access your recently viewed and bookmarked topics from the content browser home and use the drill-down menu to navigate course content topics and modules. As you navigate deeper into content modules, the navigation at the top enables you to move up one module level or jump backwards to the Content Browser home. To view a topic, click on its name to launch it in View Content. The Content Browser widget retains the place you left off when you return to your course homepage.

Content Navigator Widget
Displays modules in Content and shows the user's progress for each module. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.

Course Administration


The Course Administration widget displays links to your course administration tools. The number of links you can see in the Course Administration widget is determined by your role’s permissions in the Roles and Permissions tool.


Google Search


The Google Search widget enables you to search the web from your homepage. Your search results open in a new window using your default internet browser.

Google Workspace
Displays your Google Workspace and the content within it.
Kaltura
Adds the Kaltura integration to your homepage: a scalable video cloud platform.
Learner Awards Widget
Displays all possible learner awards on your homepage. Learners can see their own awards and the available awards within your course. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Learning Repository
Allows you to search your Learning Repository (LOR) from your course homepage.
Multi-Profile Widget
Allows creation of multiple course supporting roles within a single widget and retrieves user information from User Profiles and the Classlist to display a list of users in the course and their roles to learners. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.

My Courses


The My Courses widget shows course offerings in which users are enrolled and can access. Users can pin courses in the widget and navigate to course homepages by clicking the course tiles. Pinned course tiles display notifications for unevaluated assignment submissions and quizzes, and unread discussion posts. 

My Org Units
Displays all your org units within your organization in Brightspace.

My Settings


The My Settings widget only displays links the user has permission to view. These permissions are located under Account Settings in the Roles and Permissions tool. Users with permission to edit specific course offerings can access the Course Management tool from the widget menu.


Office 365


The Office 365 widget allows you to log in to your Office 365 account by entering your credentials. When you log in, the widget displays a list of your emails, calendar events, and OneDrive documents. Clicking anywhere in the widget takes you directly to your email, calendar, or OneDrive, depending on which tab you're on. Navigating to an individual email, calendar event, or OneDrive document within the widget is currently not supported.

Photo Banner Widget
Displays uploaded images in a carousel. Users with permissions can upload images, add a link to the carousel, and customize the background styling of the widget. Users with the appropriate permissions can also add or remove images and configure the background. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Quick Eval
Shows all the activities in your course that require assessment.

Role Switch


The Role Switch widget enables you to temporarily switch your active role to another role in your organization by selecting it from a drop-down list. You can then navigate the org unit based on the permissions of another role without having to log out and log in as another user. For example, you can select another role to see how Course Home or a quiz appears to users in that role.

Single Card Profile Widget
provides in-line authoring that allows instructors, facilitators, tutors, and other users to introduce themselves to learners. Put important details at the forefront, showcase your photo, share social media details, and write other important bio information. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Slim Announcements Widget
Presents you and your learners with a simplified, shorter view of announcements. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.

Tasks


The Tasks widget enables you to view and manage tasks from the Calendar tool. You can add a due date and additional notes to each task, and the system sorts them into the categories of Today, Upcoming, or Someday (no due date).
If you mark a task complete, it disappears from the list. However, you can click the View Completed Tasks link to review the tasks you've finished.


Updates


The Updates widget can be configured to display any of the following links:
Unread submission files
Unevaluated assignment submissions
Unread discussions posts
New email
Ungraded quizzes
Quizzes that have not been attempted
Self-registration updates
The Updates widget can only be configured or updated by a D2L Implementation Services Specialist or D2L Support. Please contact D2L Support if you want to customize the links displayed.


User Links


The User Links widget allows users to create a personal list of links to external websites.

Visual Table of Contents Widget
Displays a ‘flip tile’ visual representation of modules in a course. Learners can click on each tile to flip it over and reveal a description of the module. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Welcome Window Widget
Displays a pop-up message the first time a user logs into a course. This message can include text, images, and even short videos. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Work To Do 
The Work To Do widget provides learners with a summary of their assigned learning activities  that are overdue or have an upcoming due date or end date across all their courses (when added to the Organization homepage). If the Work To Do widget appears on a course homepage, the summary of learning activities only applies to the specific course. 
Custom Widgets
You can also create your own custom widgets, to serve additional needs that the standard widgets don’t cover, such as a profile widget with your contact information.
For additional information, refer to the Create a custom widget heading of the Manage widgets on your homepage topic.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage widgets on your homepage

You can customize which widgets are placed on your widget-based homepage, as well where they are positioned on the page. 
Note: To add widgets to your homepage, you must set your homepage to Widget-based. This is accessed from the Edit Homepage page.
System widgets
Brightspace has a large selection of widgets to choose from when customizing your widget-based homepage. The following are the widgets that can be added to your course homepage:
Widget
Description
Access Google Workspace
 A space where users can quickly access their Google Workspace account. Note that users must first link their Google Workspace account to use this widget.
Activity Feed
Provides a central location for teachers to post messages and assignments. You can also provide links to course materials and external resources.
Admin Tools
Provides administrators with direct access to all the administrative tools in the Admin Tools menu.
Announcements
                        Students can easily view teacher communications about important, upcoming dates.
Auditors
Displays all the users with audit permissions in the course.
Awards Leaderboard
Displays the top 10 students who have earned badges (not certificates) in the course. Course administrators with permissions can configure the Awards leaderboard to display the students with either the highest Number of Awards or Credits appearing at the top. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Bookmarks
Shows the content a user has bookmarked in the course.
Calendar
                        Students are able to see all upcoming events in one spot, like assignment or quiz due dates.
Content Navigator Widget
Provides students with quick access to course topics. Students can select to move from module, to sub-module, to content for more direct access. This widget tracks and displays navigational history and allows one-click navigation to the last-visited module topic. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Course Administration
Provides quick access to course administrative tools.
Google Search
Provides users with access to Google's search engine on their course homepage.
Google Workspace
Gives users access to their Google tools within Brightspace. The Google Workspace widget displays users' emails, events, and documents on their Brightspace homepage. Note that users must first link their Google Workspace account to use this widget.
Kaltura
As a video content management tool, Kaltura allows teachers and students to create, upload, edit, manage, publish, discover and deliver high-quality, rich video to any device, live or on demand. To learn more about Kaltura, refer to D2L Partner Profile - Kaltura.
Learner Awards Widget
Inspire students with friendly competition by displaying the top 10 students who have earned badges (awards) in the course. It can also show students their earned and unearned badges. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Learning Repository (LOR)
Provides users with quick access to the LOR.
Multi-Profile Widget
Allows you to introduce yourself and other users to your students. The system widget retrieves user information from User Profiles and the Classlist to display a list of users in the course and their roles to students. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
My Courses
On the org homepage, users can view all the courses they are enrolled in.
My Org Units
Displays the org units that a user is a part of.
My Settings
Shows the options for customizing personal settings in Brightspace.
Office 365
Provides users quick-access to a collection of enterprise-grade communication and productivity services. Depending on the license chosen, these services may include Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, OneNote, Lync Online, and Office Professional Plus.
Photo Banner Widget
 Displays uploaded images as a gallery. Teachers can upload images, add a link to the Photo Banner carousel, and customize the background styling of the widget. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Quick Eval
Offers evaluators a single location to view all submissions that are awaiting evaluation.
Role Switch
Allows users with permissions to switch between different roles or personas in their Brightspace course.
Single Profile Widget
Provides in-line authoring that allows users to introduce themselves to students. Put important details at the forefront, showcase a personal photo, share social media details, and write other important information. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Slim Announcements Widget
Presents users with a simplified, shorter view of announcements. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Tasks
Displays a user's personal tasks as an agenda.
Updates
Shows any new content that a user needs to view, like unread discussion posts or assignment submissions.
User Links
A comprised list of all the links in the course.
Visual Table of Contents Widget
Displays a ‘flip tile’ visual representation of modules in a course. Each course module’s title and image appear on the front of a tile. Students can click on each tile to flip it over and reveal a description of the module. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Welcome Window Widget
 Displays a pop-up message the first time a user logs into a course. This message can include text, images, and even short videos. This widget is a part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Work To Do
Shows all content with due or end dates in the near future or in the past. Any overdue work will appear at the top of the list, and upcoming items appear below.
 
Create a custom widget
Custom widgets allow you to expand the functionality of available content in your homepages to suit your specific organizational and course needs. You can add custom HTML code to create a wide range of widgets. As an Instructor, you can create custom widgets for your courses, or use custom widgets shared to your course offerings from the organization, department, or semester level.
Your administrator may have chosen to implement an additional safeguard on custom widgets called ‘sandboxing’. When a custom widget is sandboxed, a secure iFrame is created around the widget and prevents scripts from executing outside the widget. You can view if a widget is sandboxed or not on the list of custom widgets. Un-sandboxed widgets are not unsecured per se, but should only be created by trusted roles. 
In the widgets list, un-sandboxed widgets have a warning icon:
Figure: The float-over text on the icon indicates that the widget is not sandboxed.
To create a custom widget
On your course homepage, click Course Admin > Widgets > Create Widget.
Figure: The Create Widget option.
Enter a name and description for the widget.
Figure: The Properties tab showing the fields for a new widget.
To add your own HTML content to the widget using the HTML Source Editor, click the Content tab > HTML Source Editor icon. Add your HTML custom code. 
Figure: The Source Code option in the Content tab.
To apply different styling options to the widget, click Customize Widget Style. 
Figure: The Customize Widget Style option.
In Widget Settings, do any of the following:To hide the titlebar, clear the Display Titlebar check box.To enable sandboxing of widget content, click to select Widget is Sandboxed and/or Render in iFrame. Note: If your role does not have permission to toggle this setting, but you feel your widget needs to be unsandboxed to behave as expected, please contact an administrator with the Widget Security permission.To remove the default border style, clear the Display widget container style check box. Select Prohibit minimizing widget to prevent users from closing the widget on the homepage
Figure: The Widget Settings dialog.
To set a custom title, in the Widget Name section, select the Custom radio button. Enter your text in the field. 
Click Save. To attach release conditions to the widget, click the Release Conditions tab and do one of the following:Click Attach Existing then select from existing release conditions available to the org unit. Click Save. From the dropdown list, select All conditions must be met or Any condition must be met. Click Create and Attach to create a release condition and attach it. Click Create. From the drop-down list, select All conditions must be met or Any condition must be met.
Click Save and Close. 
Figure: The Release Conditions tab.
Add and position widgets on your homepage
In the bottom right corner of the homepage, click the three dots (...) and select Edit this homepage.
To view all widgets available for use in the homepage you are editing, in the Widgets section, click Add Widgets. Figure: The Add Widgets button in the Widgets section.
Select the check boxes beside the widgets that you want to add to the homepage panel, and click Add. Note: The widgets listed in the Add Widgets dialog are dependent on the tools available for use within your organization and added to the current org unit.
To change the vertical placement of a widget on a panel or move it to another panel, click and drag the widget.
Click Save and Close.
Video: Adding Widgets to your Homepage

Edit or remove widgets on your homepage
In the bottom right corner of the homepage, click the three dots (...) and select Edit this homepage.
To view all widgets available for use in the homepage you are editing, in the Widgets section, do one of the following:Click Remove to remove an existing widget from the homepage.Click on a widget to edit the appropriate fields to hide the title bar, replace the widget name, or restrict the ability to minimize the widget.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Displaying course grouping tabs in the My Courses widget

The My Courses widget can display tabs that sort courses by Semester name, Department, or Role below the course name. 
On the My Home or Course Home page, navigate to the My Courses widget.
From the My Courses context menu, select Customize this widget.
Do one of the following: 
Select None to remove course grouping tabs from the widget.

Select Semester, then select an alphabetical sorting option from the drop-down menu.


Select Department, then select an alphabetical sorting option from the drop-down menu.


Select Role.

Click Save



--------------------------------------------------


Change personal settings with the My Settings widget

You can change your user profile, account settings, notifications, and more using the My Settings widget found on the My Home page.
To change personal settings with the My Settings widget
On the navbar, click My Home.
On the My Home page, navigate to the My Settings widget.

Figure: The My Settings widget.
From the My Settings widget, click a setting: Note: Depending on your permissions, not all of the following settings may appear.Profile: Change settings for your profile picture, contact information, social networks, and personal information. Account Settings: Change settings for fonts, dialogs, Brightspace Editor, reading, video, locale and languages, pseudo-localization, signing in, applications, Discussions, Email, and metadata.Notifications: Change settings for email and mobile contact information, summary of course activity, specific tool notifications such as Grades and Quizzes, custom notifications, and course exclusions.Email AddressChange PasswordView my Progress: Change settings for the Class Progress dashboard.Locker: Manage your locker and group lockers.Brightspace Portfolio: Manage Brightspace Portfolio.




--------------------------------------------------


Using the My Org Units widget

My Org Units is a custom widget that allows all users to search and navigate to different types of org units they are enrolled in, such as colleges, departments, semesters, groups, sections, course offerings, and course templates. You can use the My Org Units widget to go to other org units aside from their enrolled course offerings, bypassing the need for access to the Org Unit Editor.
Add the My Org Units widget to an org unit homepage
Navigate to the org unit you want to add a widget to.
Click Course Admin.
In the Site Setup section, select Homepages.Figure: The Homepages option highlighted.
Click the Homepage that the course homepage uses.Figure: The selected homepage highlighted.
In the Widgets section, click Add Widgets.
Select the My Org Units check box.Figure: Selecting My Org Units widget in the opened by clicking the Add Widgets button Add Widgets window.
Click Add.Figure: The Add button in the Add Widgets window.
Drag and drop the widget where you want to organize the homepage.
Click Save and Close.Figure: The Save and Close button.
Customize My Org Units widget settings
From an organization homepage or an org unit homepage navigate to My Org Units widget.
From the My Org Units widget action menu, click Customize this widget.Figure: The Customize this widget option highlighted.
Select the check box beside the org unit type you want to display in the widget.
To display the org unit type name in the widget, toggle the switch to On.
Enter a number for the Minimum enrollments required for display field. 
From the Page Size drop-down list, select the number of org units to display per page within the widget.
Click Save.Figure: Adding custom parameters for the My Org Units widget.




--------------------------------------------------


Using the Photo Banner Widget

The Photo Banner widget is a customizable, course-level widget that displays  uploaded images in a carousel. Users with permissions can upload images, add a  link to the carousel, and customize the background styling of the widget. Users with the appropriate permissions can also add or remove images and configure the background.
The Photo Banner widget can be purchased as part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Add images to the Photo Banner Widget
Add the Photo Banner System widget to your homepage.
Navigate to the Photo Banner widget.
From the Photo Banner widget, click the Open Photo Banner Widget Tools (...) button and then choose an option to modify:Add Images: Upload your desired image. Add text to describe the image in the Alternative Text field. This provides text used for accessibility tools such as screen-readers. Insert an optional URL that a user will be directed to if they click on the image in the Photo Banner.Remove Images: Select the trash can icon to remove any photo from the Banner.Configure Background: Set a background image or color that the other images will be set against.




--------------------------------------------------


Using the Slim Announcements Widget

The Slim Announcements widget presents users with a simplified, shorter view of announcements. It is a great option for course creators who want to regularly add announcements, anecdotes, or media – you can share as much as you want without sacrificing the visual design.
The Slim Announcements widget can be purchased as part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Create and edit the Slim Announcements Widget
1.	Navigate to Course Admin > Announcements.
2.	Select New Announcement.
3.	Enter the Headline.
4.	Enter the Content.
Note: You can also import an image into the content to change the announcement’s thumbnail.
5.	Complete the Availability, Attachments and Additional Release Conditions  as needed.
6.	Click Save.
Changing a thumbnail image in an announcement
The Slim Announcements Widget displays the first image in an announcement as a thumbnail. If there is no image in an announcement, you can configure a default image to display using the newsImageDefault property in the widget configuration file.
Customize the Slim Announcements Widget
Note: Administrators must grant the Homepages > Retrieve Org Unit Custom Widget Data and Modify Org Unit Custom Widget Data permissions to instructors that need to customize this widget.
Add the Slim Announcements system widget to your homepage.
Navigate to the Slim Announcements widget.
On the Slim Announcements widget, click the Customize Widget (...) button.
In the Widget Config field, change the values of the properties you want to edit. You can choose to set the Organization level configs for all Slim Announcements widgets; or make specific choices about the configuration of this Slim Announcements widget at the Course level. See the Properties for the Slim Announcements Widget below.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Using the Visual Table of Contents (TOC) Widget

The Visual Table of Contents (TOC) widget displays each course module’s title and image on the front of a tile. Students can click on each tile to flip it over and reveal a description of the module.
The Visual TOC also acts as a progress tracker, showing students the topics completed out of those available. 
The Visual TOC widget can be purchased as part of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack.
Topic Completion Tracking
Completion Tracking needs to be used on content topics for them to count toward its module’s completion total, which appears in the progress bar.
Release Conditions
The Visual Table of Contents widget respects all Release Conditions applied to topics. For example, if a user is not allowed to view a topic until a specific date, then the topic is not available in the widget until that date. The Visual TOC widget shows users the same topics that they can access in the Content tool.
Changing a module image
The Visual Table of Contents Widget displays the first image from a module’s description field on its tile. 
If no image is found in a module’s description, a default image is displayed instead. This default image is stored in Shared Files. Refer to the Properties for the Visual Table of Contents Widget below for more information on how to change the default image by modifying the DefaultTileImage property in a configuration file.
Changing the navigation method
In the Visual Table of Contents widget, it is possible to navigate by two separate methods. You can click the image on the course tile to navigate to the root module, or you can click the text module link to navigate to the next sub-module.
Administrators can use the forceTopLevelModuleNav variable to set the Visual TOC behavior so that the navigation always goes to the root module.
Changing Module Overview (the back side of each tile)
The Visual Table of Contents widget displays overview text from a module’s description field on the back side of its tile. 
Note: Text formatting does not apply to the Module Overview text. Only plain text is displayed on the back of each module tile.
Customize the Visual Table of Contents Widget
Note: Administrators must grant the Homepages > Retrieve Org Unit Custom Widget Data and Modify Org Unit Custom Widget Data permissions to instructors that need to customize this system widget.
Add the Visual Table of Contents widget to your homepage.
On the Visual Table of Contents widget, click the Customize Widget (...) button.
In the Widget Config field, change the values of the properties you want to edit. You can choose to set the Organization level configs for all Visual Table of Contents widgets; or make specific choices about the configuration of this Visual Table of Content widget at the Course level. Refer to Properties for the Visual Table of Contents Widget.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Using the Welcome Window Widget

The Welcome Window widget displays a pop-up message the first time a user logs into a course. This message can include text, images, and even short videos. Course creators and administrators can easily edit and update the content in the pop-up message, and you can include as many pages in the pop-up window as you need. The Welcome Window widget is the perfect tool to welcome users, help orient them to the structure and navigation of the course, and set them up for success.
Note: The legacy Homepage Widget Expansion Pack has reached the End of Support milestone and will be retired in September 2024/20.24.9. Clients can continue to use the hosted versions of the widget until that date; however, they are no longer supported by D2L. Clients using the legacy hosted versions of widgets should upgrade to the new Brightspace System widgets. For more information about how to identify which legacy widgets you are using and plan for the retirement of the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack in your environment, refer to Upgrading from the Hosted Widgets. For more information about the Welcome Window widget, refer to the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack topic.
Customize the Welcome Window Widget
You can customize the configuration settings of the Welcome Window widget.
Note:You must have the required Welcome Widget role permissions assigned to your role to customize the Welcome Window widget. Contact your administrator for more information. 
To customize the Welcome Window widget
From your course homepage, navigate to the Welcome Window widget.
On the Welcome Window widget, click the Customize Widget (...) button.
In the Widget Config field, change the values of the properties you want to edit. You can choose to set the Organization level configs for all Welcome Window widgets; or make specific choices about the configuration of this Welcome Window widget at the Course level.Note: For a detailed list of property names, descriptions, and values that you can enter into the Widget Config field, refer to Properties for the Welcome Window Widget.
Click Save and Close.
Click Relaunch the Welcome Window to see your changes.




--------------------------------------------------


Automatically customize course content using replace strings

You can use replace strings to customize course content and communications in Brightspace. Replace strings  automatically incorporate your  student 's personalized information, such as their name or user ID. This enables you to developer better relationships with your students , increase engagement levels, and improves the overall learning experience.
About replace strings
Replace strings, sometimes referred to as display configuration variables, are configuration variable names enclosed in curly brackets {} that are automatically replaced by the corresponding configuration variable values. For example, if you enter the text {OrgUnitID} into a field in a tool or widget settings  you will see the Organization Unit ID (ou #) of the course when you view the tool or widget. Replace strings are used in all tools that use Brightspace Editor. However, evaluation rules for the replace strings vary depending on the tool.
Evaluation rules for  Content topics
For topics created in Content, replace strings are evaluated only once when first entered. Thereafter, there is no record of a replacement string having been entered. For example, if you enter {OrgUnitID} into a Content topic in course 'A' and later copy that topic into course 'B', the ou # of course 'A' course will display in the topic in course 'B'. 
Evaluation rules for all other tools
For all other tools a replace string is evaluated each time the document containing the replace string is viewed. For example, if you enter {OrgUnitID} into a Discussion topic in course 'A' and later copy that topic into course 'B', the ou # of course 'B' will display in the post in course 'B'. 
Not all replace strings apply to all tools as described below. 
Replace strings are particularly useful within the following:
Course Homepage Widgets
Custom Navigation Bar Links
Navigation Bars
Mail Templates
Grades when adding bulk feedback
Use replace strings with various widgets and tools
The available replace strings are:

Organization replace string


Description


{OrgId}


ID number of the organization


{OrgName}


Name of the organization

 

Org Unit replace string


Description


{OrgUnitId}


ID number of the organization unit


{OrgUnitName}


Name of the organization unit


{OrgUnitCode}


Code for the organization unit


{OrgUnitTypeId}


ID number of the type of the organization unit


{OrgUnitPath}


Path to files for the organization unit

 

User replace string (Unavailable in Content topics)


Description


{UserId}


ID number of the user. This value is used internally by the system


{UserName}


Full name of the user or the username entered to log on


{OrgDefinedId}


Organization ID. This is an identifier specified by the campus for the user


{FirstName}


First name of the user


{LastName}


Last name of the user


{Email}


User's internal email address


{ExternalEmail}


User's external email address


{InternalEmail}


User's internal email address

 

Role replace string (Unavailable in Content topics)


Description


{RoleId}


Internal ID number for user's role


{RoleCode}


Code for user's role


{RoleName}


Name of user's role

 

Mail Template replace string


Description


{HelpDeskEmail}


Email address of the Help Desk


{HelpDeskName}


Name for the Help Desk


{LoginPath}


URL of the login path for this site


{PasswordResetLink}


Link for users to reset their passwords

Example: Use replace strings to display a user's name in the course banner
Although there are various replace strings available, as well as various tools that they can be applied in, here is one example. You can use replace strings to display your student 's name in your course banner. 
To display your             student 's name your course banner

From your course home page, locate the course banner. 


Click Banner Settings (...) and select Customize Banner T ext.Figure: The Customize Banner Text option of Banner Settings.


From the Customize Banner Text dialog, select Custom.


Enter the desired text and add the replace string {FirstName}.Figure: An example of the {FirstName} replace string used in banner text settings.


Click Save.

Your home page banner updates and displays the name of your student .
Figure: The updated home page banner with the {FirstName} replace string applied.



--------------------------------------------------


Set up your Grade Book

You must set up a Grade Book before you can use the Grades tool. A grade book contains the following elements:
Grading systems: Enables you to  set how grades display to students, how they update in the grade book, and how you want to deal with ungraded items. Choose from Weighted, Formula, or Points systems.
Grade schemes: Enables you to organize a student's performances on grade items into levels of achievement. Levels of achievement can include letter grades, numeric scales, or text.
Grade categories:Enables you to organize and group related grade items into sections in your grade book.
Grade items: Enables you to identify how you would like to grade specific student tasks in the course. You can create calculated, formula, text, select box, pass/fail, or numeric grade items and use them to grade tasks.
View and display options for your grades.
 As you plan your grade book, consider:
Which grade items you plan to evaluate.
Which grading system is most appropriate for your course.
How you will allocate points or weights across grade items.
Which grade items you want to associate with course objects. Note: Only numeric grade items can be associated with course objects.
If you want to include a milestone grade at least once during the course.
How you want to calculate final grades.
Making changes to a grade book's settings and calculation options after you begin tracking users' grades can significantly affect existing data.
About grading systems
Before you create a new Grade Book, it is important to consider which grading system you want to use. Your grading system determines how the grade items in your grade book contribute to users’ final grades. 
When you set up your Grade Book, you can select one of the following grading systems:
Weighted: Grade items can count as a percentage of a final grade worth 100%.
Points: Grade items can be worth a certain amount of points that are totaled for a final grade.
Formula: You can define a custom formula for how grade items contribute to a final grade.
Weighted
The weighted system calculates grade items as a percentage of a final grade worth 100%. The maximum points you assign to individual grade items can be any value, but their contribution towards the category they belong to and the final grade is the percentage value (weight) assigned to them.
Grade items in a category count as a percentage of that category, not of the final grade. Therefore, grade items in a category should combine to a weight of 100%.
Example
If you have a category worth 10% of the final grade with two equally weighted grade items, the weight of each grade item is 50%, (its contribution to the category), not 5% (its contribution to the final grade).
Since it's a category’s weight and not an individual grade item’s weight that counts toward the final grade, the final grade is inaccurate until all the items in the category are graded. If you want to release final grades to users before all the items are graded, you can drop ungraded items from the calculation until the end of the course when you want all grade items to be considered. Otherwise, the final grades might be misleading.
If your grade items do not add up to 100%, you will receive a warning message. You can ignore this message if you choose; a balanced grade book is not required. If the weights assigned to grade items do not sum to 100%, the tool adjusts the weight of each item. For example, if you have three grade items with a weight of 25% each, each item is actually calculated as 33%. This is true for categories and the final grade.
Points
Use the points system when you want the maximum points assigned to a grade item to be equal to its contribution to the final grade. Final grades are calculated by adding a user’s score on all grade items together and dividing by the sum of the maximum points values. The sum of the maximum points values for all grade items does not need to equal 100.
With the points system you do not specify a category’s weight or total points. It is the maximum points assigned to an individual grade item that counts toward the final grade.
Make sure the maximum points assigned to grade items reflect how much you want them to be worth. For example, don’t grade each of your 20 homework assignments out of 50 points and then your final exam out of 80 points.
Another option in the point system is to exclude an item from the final grade calculation. This enables you to evaluate a grade category, numeric grade item, selectbox grade item, or pass/fail grade item without including the grade in users’ calculated or adjusted final grades. The New/Edit Item page and the New/Edit Category page both include an Exclude from Final Grade Calculation check box.
Note: You can achieve similar functionality in the weighted system by setting the grade item or category’s weight to 0%.
Formula
Use the formula system when you want to calculate final grades using a custom formula that allows for conditions. The formula system is based on the points system, but allows you to set conditions around grade items to determine the final grade. For example, you could require that users receive at least 50% on their midterm and final exam to pass a course.
The formula system might not be available at your organization. If you do not have this option, you can release the adjusted final grade and calculate your custom formula manually, or you can contact your site administration about getting access to this functionality.
Build your grade book by creating grade items.
The grades you manually enter  in your grade book for quizzes, discussions, and assignments grade items are  automatically synchronized back to Quizzes, Discussions and Assignments. 
Note: Quizzes grades are not synchronized when the tool is updated by the Brightspace API or when you import your grade book. Discussions and Assignments grades do synchronize when using the Brightspace API and when importing the grade book.
Create a new Grade Book with the Setup Wizard
If you would like to create a new Grade Book, you can use the Setup Wizard to create all required elements of your Grade Book. These include the grading system, grade calculations, and grade schemes for your Grade Book.
Note: If a Grade Book as already been created at the organization level and assigned to your course by an administrator, you can review the Current Grade Book settings from the Setup Wizard tab.
            Figure: The Current Grade Book Settings section of the Setup Wizard tab.
To create a new Grade Book with the wizard
From your course navbar, click Grades.
Click the Setup Wizard tab.
Scroll to the bottom and click Start.
Follow the instructions to create your Grade Book.
Once you have created your Grade Book, the Setup Wizard provides you with additional Grade options.
Figure: The Grade Options section of the Setup Wizard.
Create a grade scheme from the Schemes tab
A grade scheme enables you to organize users’ performances on grade items into levels of achievement. A grade scheme can include any number of achievement levels. Each achievement level has its own range of acceptable grades and a symbol, such as a numeric value, letter, or text description, to represent it. You can create your own grade schemes or use schemes set up by your organization.

Grade scheme


Example


Letter


F, D, C, B, A, A+


Numeric


2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0


Text


Below Expectations, Meets Expectations, Exceeds Expectations

You can create a grade scheme by following the Setup Wizard, or by using the Schemes tab of the Grades tool.
To create a grade scheme from the Schemes tab
From your couse navbar, click Grades.
From the Schemes tab, click New Scheme.
From the New Scheme page, do the following:Figure: The New Scheme page.In the General area, enter the scheme Name.In the Ranges area, define the ranges in your grade scheme:Symbols and start percentages are required for each range. Symbols can be individual letters such as A+ or B- or words and phrases such as Needs Improvement or Excellent. In the Start % column, start with the lowest level and work your way up. To associate a color with each range in the grade scheme, click the Color context menu and select the color. Associating colors with grade scheme ranges provide students with a visual indicator of their achievement. These color associations display in your grade book.In the Assigned Value % field, enter the numeric grade you want students to achieve when you evaluate them using the grade scheme. If you do not assign a value in the Assigned Value % field, the Start % is used as the default.To add more ranges to your scheme, click Add Ranges and complete the fields for the additional ranges.To delete a range in your grade scheme, click the Delete icon alongside the range you want to delete.
Click Save and Close.
Your new grade scheme is created. To set this grade scheme as the default for your course, click the checkmark in the Set As Default column next to your grade scheme.
Video: How to create a grade scheme

About grade items
Grade items in your grade book represent all the work that you want to evaluate users on in a course. Grade items can exist independently in your grade book, or you can associate numeric grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Each grade item has an entry in the grade book, which you assign a grade to for each user. Depending on the grade item type you want to create, grade items can be graded numerically or based on a grade scheme.
About Calculated final grades
The final grade calculated by the grade book. You cannot adjust the final grade without adjusting grade item scores.
About Adjusted final grade 
You can manually change the final grade calculation without affecting grade item scores.
Create calculated grade items
You can use a calculated grade item to display a user's cumulative achievement across multiple grade items. Unlike the calculated final grade, calculated grade items do not recognize grade category settings of the grade items they evaluate, such as exclusion or distribution options. They can belong to a category but they cannot contribute to the calculated final grade. 
Note: You cannot associate calculated grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Only numeric grade items can be associated with course objects.
To create calculated grade items
On your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, click New and select Item.
Click Calculated.
In the General area, enter your grade item details.
In the Grading area, do any of the following:Figure: The Grading area for a Calculated new item page.If you want users' grades to be able to exceed the maximum points specified for the item, select Can Exceed.Note: If you enable Can Exceed after the score is passed from the Assignment tool, the score in Grades does not automatically update. You must retract the score from the assignment and republish the score.From the Grade Scheme drop-down list, select a grading scheme for your grade item.Under Calculation Method, select from the following: Milestone Grade Calculation: Milestone Grade Calculation uses the maximum cumulative weight or points of the completed grade items as the denominator to determine a calculated grade item's score. Note: A calculated grade item with Milestone Grade Calculation is a good method for providing a course interim grade calculation, and for analyzing how specific grade items contribute to an overall score. You can only create calculated grade items that use a Milestone Grade Calculation if your grading system is set to Weighted.Final Grade CalculationNote: These options are not available when using a Points grading system.To attach a rubric to the grade item, do one of the following:To attach an existing rubric, click Add Rubric.To create and attach a new rubric, click Create Rubric in New Window.
In the Display Options area, do any of the following:Under Student View:To allow users to see the class average on the item, select  Display class average to users .To allow users to see a graph showing how grades are distributed between different percentiles, selectDisplay grade distribution to users.To allow graded users to view grade information for this item differently from other items in the grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.Under Managing View:To view grade information for this item differently from other items in your grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select either Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.
To associate a learning objective with the grade item, click the Objectives tab, and then Associate Learning Objectives.
Click Save and Close.
A calculated grade item is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
About the formula editor
When you create a formula grade items, you must use the Formula Editor to define a formula that calculates a grade item’s value based on other grade items. When you create a formula, you specify which grade items you want included in the formula and the relationships between them. An example of a simple formula is one that calculates the sum of a number of grade items. A more complicated formula is one that drops the minimum or maximum value from a set of grade items. 
Figure: The Formula Editor.
Formula Editor components

Component


Description


Formula area


The formula area is where the formula text displays. The equals sign (=) at the start of the formula cannot be deleted. A cursor shows your position in the formula. 


Cursor placement


Use the cursor placement icons to move the cursor forwards and backwards in the formula. You can also move the cursor by clicking on the new location with your mouse. There are four options: 
<< - Move cursor to start of formula
< - Move cursor back one element
> - Move cursor forward one element
>> - Move cursor to end of formula


Grade item parameters


To view what grade items you can insert as a parameter in your formula, use the Grade Item drop-down list. You can insert Numeric, Pass/Fail, Selectbox, and Formula type grade items. You cannot reference the formula grade item you are defining or a final grade. 
To view the values associated with the grade item you want to use in the formula, use the Grade Item Value drop-down list. There are three options: 
Points Received - The grade the user achieved. For example, 7 (out of 10 points). 
Max Points - The maximum points available for the grade item. For example, 10 points. 
Percent - The percent grade the user achieved. For example, 70%. 
When using the weighted system, category and grade item weights are ignored in formula calculations. 
Dropped grade items and bonus grade items are calculated the same as other grade items. 


Functions


The Function drop-down list contains a list of functions that you can use in your calculation formula: 
MAX - Calculates the maximum (largest) value in a set of values. 
MIN - Calculates the minimum (smallest) value in a set of values. 
SUM -Calculates the sum (total) of a set of values. 
AVG - Calculates the average for a set of values by adding all the values and dividing by the total number of values. 
IF - Operates as a Boolean statement that returns either the value set as true or as false. You must define the condition (Boolean statement), true (then) value, and false (else) value. For example, format the IF statement as follows: IF {[Condition to check], [Value if condition is True], [Value if condition is False]}
NOT - Operates as a Boolean statement that returns the value set as true if the condition is false and as false if the condition is true.
You can embed functions within functions. 
The Start, Next Term, and End options are used to define elements of a function: 
Start - Starts the function selected in the Function drop-down list with an opening bracket ({). 
Next Term - Inserts a comma to separate grade items or parts of a Boolean statement. 
End - Ends the function with a closing bracket (}). 


Operators


Operators are usually used in conjunction with at least one grade item.

Formula Editor validation errors
The following are errors you might encounter while using the Formula Editor.

Error


Description


Examples


Unexpected [token_type] 
For example, Unexpected operator 


The formula contains a function component in an unexpected location 


= 5=/1 
= (5+1)2


Unbalanced parentheses


The formula contains an opening or closing bracket without a corresponding bracket


= 5+1) 


Missing end of function 


The formula contains an unclosed function


= SUM{[Item1.Points], [Item2.Points] 


Unexpected function end 


The formula contains a closing bracket for a function that does not relate to a function 


= [Item1.Points]/2} 


Invalid number of operator parameters 


The formula contains an invalid number of operator parameters 


= [Item1.Points] + 


Invalid number of function parameters 


The formula contains an invalid number of function parameters 


= SUM{} 
= IF{[Item1.Points]<2,5} 


Numeric value expected 


A Boolean statement or operator was entered in place of a numeric value


= IF{5<2,1 OR 1,4} 
= SUM{1 = 2,3,4} 


Boolean value expected


A Boolean statement was not entered for a condition


= IF {MIN{4,5},100,0} 
= NOT{4}


Invalid terminal 


The formula contains an incorrectly used terminal


= [Item1.Points] + 3.2.5

Create formula grade items
Use formula grade items to automatically grade users with a custom formula based on achievements in other grade items. 
Note: The following limitations apply to formula grade items: 
You can only calculate the final grade with formula grade items using the Formula grading system. 
Formula grade items can belong to a category, but do not have to.
You must create all grade items you want to include in the formula grade item before you create the formula item.
Formula grade items do not contribute to the calculated final grade in a points-based or weighted grade book. 
Important:You cannot associate formula grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Only numeric grade items can be associated with course objects.
To create formula grade items
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, click New and select Item.
Click Formula.
In the General area, enter your grade item details.
In the Grading area, do any of the following:Figure: The Grading area for a Formula new item page.Enter the Maximum Points for the grade item. Then, do any of the following:To define the formula for your grade item, click Edit Using the Formula Editor.Figure: The Formula Editor. In the Formula Editor window, enter your formula and click Insert.If you want users' grades to be able to exceed the maximum points specified for the item, select Can Exceed.Note: If you enable Can Exceed after the score is passed from the Assignment tool, the score in Grades does not automatically update. You must retract the score from the assignment and republish the score.From the Grade Scheme drop-down list, select a grading scheme for your grade item.To attach a rubric to the grade item, do one of the following:To attach an existing rubric, click Add Rubric.To create and attach a new rubric, click Create Rubric in New Window.
In the Display Options area, do any of the following:Under Student View:To allow users to see the class average on the item, select  Display class average to users .To allow users to see a graph showing how grades are distributed between different percentiles, selectDisplay grade distribution to users.To allow graded users to view grade information for this item differently from other items in the grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.Under Managing View:To view grade information for this item differently from other items in your grade book, select Override display options for this item .Select either Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.
To associate a learning objective with the grade item, click the Objectives tab, and then Associate Learning Objectives.
Click Save and Close.
A formula grade item is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
Create text grade items
Use text grade items to provide comments that are not counted towards users’ final grades. Text grade items can belong to a category but they do not contribute to the calculated final grade. 
Note: You cannot associate text grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Only numeric grade items can be associated with course objects. 
To create text grade items
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, click New and select Item.
Click Text.
In the General area, enter your grade item details. 
In the Grading area, to attach a rubric to a grade item, do one of the following:To attach an existing rubric, click Add Rubric.To create and attach a new rubric, click Create Rubric in New Window.
In the Display Options area, do the following:Figure: The Display Options area when creating a text new item page.Select Override display options for this item to view grade information for the grade item differently from other items in your grade book.Enter the number of text characters to show for the grade item.
Click Save and Close.
A text grade item is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
Create selectbox grade items
Grade users by assigning a grade scheme level that is equivalent to a percentage grade range. You cannot create selectbox grade items if you do not have at least one grade scheme for the course. 
Note: You cannot associate calculated grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Only numeric grade items can be associated with course objects. 
To create selectbox grade items
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, click New and select Item.
Click Selectbox.
In the General area, enter your grade item details. 
In the Grading area, do any of the following:Figure: The Grading area of a Selectbox new item page.Enter the Maximum Points for your selectbox grade item.Enter the Weight to set the percentage that you want the grade item to contribute to the category or final grade.If you want users' grades to be able to exceed the maximum points specified for the item, select Can Exceed.Note: If you enable Can Exceed after the score is passed from the Assignment tool, the score in Grades does not automatically update. You must retract the score from the assignment and republish the score. From the Grade Scheme drop-down list, select a grading scheme for your grade item.To attach a rubric to the grade item, do one of the following:To attach an existing rubric, click Add Rubric.To create and attach a new rubric, click Create Rubric in New Window.Note: These options are not available when using a Points grading system.
From the Display Options area, do any of the following:Under Student View:To allow users to see the class average on the item, select  Display class average to users .To allow users to see a graph showing how grades are distributed between different percentiles, selectDisplay grade distribution to users.To allow graded users to view grade information for this item differently from other items in the grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.Under Managing View:To view grade information for this item differently from other items in your grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select either Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.
To associate a learning objective with the grade item, click the Objectives tab, and then Associate Learning Objectives.
Click Save and Close.
A selectbox grade item is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
Create pass/fail grade items
You can grade users using a simple pass/fail grade scheme. 
Note: You cannot associate calculated grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. Only numeric grade items can be associated with course objects. 
To create pass/fail grade items
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, click New and select Item.
Click Pass/Fail.
In the General area, enter your grade item details. 
In the Grading area, do any of the following:Figure: The Grading area of the Pass/Fail new item page. Enter the Maximum Points for your grade item.Enter the Weight to set the percentage that you want the grade item to contribute to the category or final grade.If you want users' grades to be able to exceed the maximum points specified for the item, select Can Exceed.Note: If you enable Can Exceed after the score is passed from the Assignment tool, the score in Grades does not automatically update. You must retract the score from the assignment and republish the score. From the Grade Scheme drop-down list, select a grading scheme for your grade item.To attach a rubric to the grade item, do one of the following:To attach an existing rubric, click Add Rubric.To create and attach a new rubric, click Create Rubric in New Window.Note: These options are not available when using a Points grading system.
From the Display Options area, do any of the following:Under Student View:To allow users to see the class average on the item, select  Display class average to users .To allow users to see a graph showing how grades are distributed between different percentiles, selectDisplay grade distribution to users.To allow graded users to view grade information for this item differently from other items in the grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.Under Managing View:To view grade information for this item differently from other items in your grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select either Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.
To associate a learning objective with the grade item, click the Objectives tab, and then Associate Learning Objectives.
Click Save and Close.
A pass/fail grade item is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
Create numeric grade items
Grade users by assigning a value out of a specified total number of points. Numeric grade items are the only type of grade item that you can associate with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. 
To create a numeric grade item
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, click New and select Item.
Click Numeric.
In the General area, enter your grade item details. 
In the Grading area, do any of the following:Figure: The Grading area of the Numeric new item page. Enter the Maximum Points for your grade item.Enter the Weight to set the percentage that you want the grade item to contribute to the category or final grade.If you want users' grades to be able to exceed the maximum points specified for the item, select Can Exceed.Note: If you enable Can Exceed after the score is passed from the Assignment tool, the score in Grades does not automatically update. You must retract the score from the assignment and republish the score. From the Grade Scheme drop-down list, select a grading scheme for your grade item.To attach a rubric to the grade item, do one of the following:To attach an existing rubric, click Add Rubric.To create and attach a new rubric, click Create Rubric in New Window.Note: These options are not available when using a Points grading system.
From the Display Options area, do any of the following:Under Student View:To allow users to see the class average on the item, select  Display class average to users .To allow users to see a graph showing how grades are distributed between different percentiles, selectDisplay grade distribution to users.To allow graded users to view grade information for this item differently from other items in the grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.Under Managing View:To view grade information for this item differently from other items in your grade book, select Override display options for this item.Select either Points, Grade scheme symbol, or Grade scheme color.
To associate a learning objective with the grade item, click the Objectives tab, and then Associate Learning Objectives.
Click Save and Close.
A numeric grade item is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
Create grade categories
Grade categories organize and group related grade items into sections in your grade book, for example, a Writing Assignments grade category to group assignment items and a Class Participation grade category to group discussion items. Grade categories display in Manage Grades.
To create grade categories
From your course navbar, click Grades.
In the Manage Grades area, click New and select Category.
From the New Category page, do the following:Figure: The New Category page.In the General area, enter your grade category details. In the Grading area, set the Weight and Distribution for your grade category.
Under Display Options, select what you want your students to see.
Click Save and Close.
A grade category is created and added to the list on the Manage Grades tab.
Video: How to create a grade category

Hide grade items
To hide grade items
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades page, from the context menu of a grade item, select Hide from Users.
Note: You can also edit a grade item, access the Restrictions tab, and select Hide from Users .
To make hidden grade items visible
From your course navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades page, from the context menu of a grade item, select Make Visible to Users.
Note:You can also edit a grade item, access the Restrictions tab, and deselect Hide from Users .
To bulk hide or display grade items
On the navbar, click Grades.
On the Manage Grades tab, select the checkbox for any item you want to change the visibility of.
Click More Actions, and select Make Visible to Users or Hide from Users.
About bonus grade items
Bonus grade items are not included in the maximum points for a category or final grade. They are added on top of the calculated grade.
Bonus grade items cannot make learners' grades exceed the maximum points specified, unless the Can Exceed option is selected.
Bonus grades cannot be the only grade items  contributing to users’ final grades. They need to be applied on top of other grades already entered.
Note: Bonus grade items do not display to learners with the grade scheme information like other grade items, no matter what display options you set. Because bonus grades are only added to final grades after all other calculations, learners can only view the numeric points, and potentially the weight achieved, for a bonus grade, but no other grade scheme information, as the actual weight or points of the bonus grade item may not be consistent with the rest of the grade scheme. 



--------------------------------------------------


Create and delete grade categories and items

Grade categories provide a way to sort your grade items and create restrictions and conditions for grade items. They offer a way to sort and characterize learner activities like assignments and quizzes.
Create a grade category
 Grade categories organize and group related grade items into sections in your grade book and display in the Manage Grades tab.
 To create a grade category

On your course homepage, navigate to Grades.


In the Grades tool, click Manage Grades.


Figure: The Manage Grades tab in the Grades tool.

Click New > Category.


Figure: The Category option on the New drop-down menu.

In the Properties tab, enter the details for your category.
Note: The fields in the Properties tab will vary based on your grade book setup.


In the Restrictions tab, you can choose to configure the following:

Hide from users: Hide restrictions from learners.


Has Start Date: Set a Start Date for the grade category.


Has End Date: Set an End Date for the grade category.


Display In Calendar: Display Start and End Dates in the course Calendar.


Release Conditions: You can Attach Existing conditions or Create and Attach conditions.



Click Save and Close.

Create a grade item
Grade items can exist independently in your grade book, or you can associate numeric grade items with course objects such as discussions, quizzes, and assignments. 
Note: For more information about Grade items, refer to the Create a grading system topic.
To create a grade item

On your course homepage, navigate to Grades.


In the Grades tool, click Manage Grades.


Figure: The Manage Grades tab in the Grades tool.

Click New > Item.


Figure: The Item option on the New drop-down menu.

On the New Item page, choose a Grade Item Type from the following:

Numeric: Grade users by assigning a value out of a specified total number of points.


Selectbox: Grade users by selecting the grade scheme level that best matches their achievement. Selectbox type grade items cannot be created until at least one org unit grade scheme has been created.
Note: Numeric and Selectbox are the only grade items that will support associations for grading and actively contribute to grade book calculations.


Pass/Fail: Grade users using a simple pass or fail grade scheme.


Formula: Automatically grade users using a custom formula based on their achievement for other grade items.


Calculated: Calculate users' cumulative achievement across multiple grade items.


Text: Provide comments in the grade book that are not calculated in the final grade.



In the Properties tab, enter the details for your grade item. 
Note: The fields in Properties will vary based on your chosen Grade Item Type. To learn more about a particular field in Properties, click the Get help on (? icon) beside the field.


In the Restrictions tab, enter the following information:

Hide from users: Hide restrictions from learners.

Has Start Date: Set a Start Date for the grade category.


Has End Date: Set an End Date for the grade category.


Display In Calendar: Display Start and End Dates in the course Calendar.


Release Conditions: You can Attach Existing conditions or Create and Attach conditions.


In the Objectives tab, click Associate Learning Objectives to add learning objectives to the grade item.


Click Save and Close.

Delete a grade item or category

On your course homepage, navigate to Grades.


In the Grades tool, click the Manage Grades tab.


Figure: The Manage Grades tab in the Grades tool.

Click the More Actions drop-down menu and select Delete.


Figure: The More Actions drop-down menu showing the Delete option.

Select the checkbox beside the grade items or categories you want to delete.


Click Delete.

Note: If you cannot select a checkbox, the grade item End Date already passed or the grade item is associated with another activity like a quiz or discussion. If a grade item has an association, it cannot be deleted unless the association is broken.



--------------------------------------------------


Gradebook icons and notifications

An orange warning dot indicator in your gradebook indicates that an activity (such as a discussion, quiz, or assignment) requires attention by the teacher.  Depending on the type of activity being reviewed, the indicator appears  based on your interactions with the student's submission.
Assignments

Figure: The Assignments icon, and the Assignments icon with the orange warning dot, indicating teacher action is required.
An indicator appears in the gradebook when a student has submitted an assignment that has not been viewed by the teacher.
Note: If there is more than one teacher in the course, viewing of the assignment by one teacher removes the indicator for all other teachers. If the submission is later set to Mark as Unread by an teacher, the indicator  reappears for all teachers.
Publishing the assignment does not affect its read status.
Discussions

Figure: The Discussions icon, and the Discussions icon with the orange warning dot, indicating teacher action is required.
An indicator appears in the gradebook when a student has posted to a discussion topic   that has not been viewed by the teacher.
Note: If there is more than one teacher in the course, viewing of the discussion by one teacher removes the indicator for all other teachers. If the submission is later set to Mark as Unread by an teacher, the indicator  reappears for all teachers. Selecting Assess Topic automatically marks the posting as read during the grading workflow for that student.
Quizzes

Figure: The Quizzes icon, and the Quizzes icon with the orange warning dot, indicating teacher action is required.
An indicator  appears in the gradebook when a student has submitted a quiz attempt that requires teacher review. This indicator typically appears for quizzes with written response questions.
Note:
Automatically graded quizzes do not have an  indicator.
Opening an attempt does not mark the attempt as read and does not remove the indicator.
Publishing a grade for an attempt removes the indicator.
Retracting a grade for an attempt causes the indicator to reappear.




--------------------------------------------------


Change content display settings

You can customize your content by changing your content display settings.
To change content display settings in the Classic content experience

From your course navbar, click Content.Figure: The Content button in the Course Home.


On the Content menu, click Settings.Figure: The Settings button.


Customize the following Content Settings:

Under Display Options:

Content Arrangement: Select the arrangement of topics in the module view.Figure: The Content Arrangement option.


Show navigation in the Content viewer : Display the navigation buttons and content browser.



Under Content Authoring:

HTML Templates: Select whether to enable HTML Templates or sort HTML Templates by name.Figure: The HTML Templatesoption.


Change Path: Under Templates, change the current template path.


Default Font Settings: Click the drop-down button to select a new font style and font size.Figure: The Default Font Settings option.

Drag and Drop Save Behavior: Select whether to show a prompt to choose a folder in the Course Files or replace files with the same name.Figure: The Drag and Drop Save Behavior option.



Under Completion Tracking:

Default Completion Status: Click the drop-down button to select a completion status.Figure: The Default Completion Status option.





After reviewing all the details, click the Save button to apply the new Content settings.

New content settings are applied.
Change current template path
You can also use content display settings to change the file path location of your HTML template.
To change current template path

On the Content menu, click Settings.


Under Templates, click Change Path.Figure: The Change Pathbutton.


Select a new path or create a new folder by clicking New Folder.Figure: The New Folder button.


Enter a folder name and click Create.Figure: The Create button.


Select the created folder and click Select Path.Figure: The Select Path button.

You have now selected a new template path.



--------------------------------------------------


Add and organize learning materials in the Classic Content experience

You can create modules, sub-modules, and topics for your course in the Classic Content experience. You can then add and organize your learning materials within this structure as part of Content.
Video: Create course content

Create a new module and sub-module
You must create a new module before you can add topics. You can also create sub-modules (modules within existing modules) to establish a deeper hierarchy. 
Note: If your course is SCORM 2004-compliant, new modules that you create are outside the sequencing and navigation built into the SCORM package.
To create a new module
From your course navbar, click Content.
In the Table of Contents panel, click  Add a module .Figure: The Add a module field of the Table of Contents page.
Enter the name of your new module and then press Enter.
A new module is added to your Table of Contents and the module is opened for editing.
To create a sub-module

Under Table of Contents, click a module. 


Click Add a sub-module.Figure: The Add a sub-module field of a module.


Enter the name of your new sub-module and then press Enter.

The sub-module is added to your module. You can upload, create, and add existing activities.
Video: How to create a new module

Create a new topic
You can add content to a module or sub-module. This content is called a topic. Topics can contain audio-video recordings, uploaded files, text, and JavaScript all displayed in HTML.
Note: To enhance the security of content files that execute scripts to create extra-rich HTML experiences (such as objects that can execute JavaScript), there is a sandboxing feature that creates a secure iFrame around the HTML file. This allows an HTML file to execute scripts (such as JavaScript) within the iFrame only but will prevent them from executing outside the iframe (against the domain). This enables some flexibility in creating rich content, but reassurance for the security-conscious that end user information remains secure in all situations, such as when students in specific courses have a special role with permission to create content topics.
To create a new topic
From your course navbar, click Content.
In the Table of Contents panel, click on the module in which you want to create a new topic.
Do any of the following:Figure: The Upload/Create and Existing Activities options of a module.Click Upload/Create to add new content:
To add a video or audio topic, click Video or Audio.To add a Brightspace Capture topic, click Capture.To add existing files from your computer, course offering files, or Shared Files area, click Upload Files.To add a new file, click Create a File.To add a link, click Create a Link.Note: It is recommended that all link topics open as an external resource to prevent any unexpected security conflicts.To add existing files from Manage Files, click Add from Manage Files.To add files from Brightspace Learning Repository, click Add Object from LORTo add a new checklist, click New Checklist.To add a new discussion topic, click New Discussion.To add a new assignment, click New Assignment.To add a new quiz, click New Quiz.To add a new survey, click New Survey.Click Existing Activities to add existing content:To add an existing assignment, click AssignmentsTo add an existing chat, click Chat.To add an existing checklist, click Checklist.To add an existing discussion topic, click Discussions.To add an existing Brightspace ePortfolio item, click Brightspace ePortfolio.To add an existing external learning tool, click External Learning Tools.To add an existing form template, click Forms.To add an existing quiz, click Quizzes.To add an existing self assessment, click Self Assessments.To add an existing survey, click Surveys.Note: Additional menu options may be available depending on your institution.
 Do one of the following:To insert an existing activity, in the Add Activity window, click on the activity.To create and insert a new activity, in the Add Activity window, click Create New [activity]. Enter your activity details and click Create and Insert.
A new topic is added to your module.
Video: How to create a video topic

Video: How to create an audio topic

Video: How to upload a topic

Video: How to add an existing activity to Content

Delete a module, sub-module, or topic
You can delete a module, sub-module, or topic from your Table of Contents in the Classic Content experience.
Note: Deleting a module or sub-module deletes all topics within that module or sub-module.
To delete a module, sub-module, or topic
From your course navbar, click Content.
In the Table of Contents panel, click the module, sub-module, or topic you want to delete.
Do one of the following:Figure: The Delete Module option.If you are deleting a module, click  Delete Module from the module's context menu. If you are deleting a topic, click  Delete Topic from the topic's context menu.If you are deleting a sub-module, click Delete Sub-module.
Decide whether you want to remove the module or topic from the Content view only or permanently delete the module or topic from the course (this will also delete all associated objects including discussions, quizzes, etc).
Click Delete.
The module, sub-module, or topic is deleted.
Video: How to delete a module




--------------------------------------------------


Add and organize learning materials in the New Content Experience (Lessons)

Use the New Content Experience (Lessons) to create, add, and arrange learning materials for your course.
In the New Conent Experience (Lessons) interface, the table of contents for the course is represented by a familiar tree structure, allowing you to easily organize and navigate course components (lessons, units, folders, and materials). 
Arrow icons display on tiles that contain additional course components, indicating the tiles can be expanded by clicking them. 
Hovering over a component displays a tool-tip. This is useful if the complete heading is too long to display in the table of contents.
Each material type displays a unique icon, making it easier to visually distinguish materials.
To familiarize yourself with the Lessons interface

Standards displays all content units and the learning standards they align to. The numbers in each column indicate the number of activities in a unit satisfying a standard. For more information, see Locate gaps in standards coverage.
New Unit adds a new unit to the course. For more information, see Create a new unit.
Course options provides options to Pace Course, Preview as a Student, and View Reports. Pacing (previously known as scheduling) suggests when to start teaching different course materials in chronologically sequenced content units. For more information, see Set a course timeframe. View Reports takes you to the Content Report for the course. For more information, see Checking course content statistics.
Availability date and due date information displays in the table of contents next to each course component. The availability date indicates when the component will be visible to students, and the due date indicates when the activity should be completed.
The visibility toggle and icon indicate the status of units, lessons, and materials: Visible or Hidden. Visibility status is also indicated by icons in the table of contents next to each unit. To change the visibility of a unit, lesson, or material, select the item and then click the visibility toggle at the top of the page.
Create New and Add Existing display full-screen pages with options for creating new materials, adding a new lesson, or inserting existing materials. For more information, see Create new material.
(...) Options menu and select Edit for a unit, lesson, or folder, you can update its title, availability and due dates, and description. When you click the (...) Options menu and select Edit for materials, you can update their titles, properties, and dates.The (...) Options menu also allows you to view standards that align to a unit, lesson, or material; make units, lessons, and materials visible to or hidden from learners; organize materials using move and reorder features; and delete units, lessons, and materials. When you select course material in courses with Activity Feed on their homepage, the option to Post to Course Homepage is also available. Move to lets you move lessons, folders, and materials to a different unit. Reorder lets you organize lessons and materials within a unit. You can also use the drag and drop functionality in the table of contents to perform these actions. The selected tile displays handles indicating you can drag-and-drop the tile to rearrange it in the table of contents.
Video: Getting Started with Lessons

Create a new unit in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
The first step in adding and organizing learning materials is to create a new unit in your course.
To create a new unit
From your course navbar, click Content.
Click New Unit.
From the New Unit page, do the following:Figure: The New Unit page.Enter a Name for the unit.If desired, click Add Due Date and enter a Due Date.If desired, enter a Description for your new unit.Click Availability Dates to set a Start Date and End Date for the new unit.
Use the visibility toggle to make the unit visible or hidden from students  on creation.
Click Save.
The new unit is added to your course.
Create a new lesson in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Create a new lesson and add it to a unit in Content.
To create a lesson
From your course navbar, click Content.
From the table of contents, click a unit that you want to add the lesson to.
Click Create New and then click New Lesson.
From the New Lesson page, do the following:Figure: The New Lesson page.Enter a Name for the unit.If desired, click Add Due Date and enter a Due Date.If desired, enter a Description for your new unit.Click Availability Dates to set a Start Date and End Date for the new unit.
Use the visibility toggle to make the unit visible or hidden from students on creation.
Click Save.
The new lesson is added to the selected unit.
Video: How to add a new unit and lesson

Create new material in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can add the following learning materials to your course in the New Content Experience (Lessons). To clearly indicate where you are adding material to, the top of the Create New menu displays breadcrumbs. This also allows you to easily navigate up or down the tree to add material at different levels.
To create and add new learning material
From your course navbar, click Content.
Do any of the following:Drag and drop locally saved files to the unit, lesson, or folder you want to add the material to directly in the navigation area.From the table of contents, select the unit, lesson, or folder you are adding material to and click Create New. The What would you like to create? page opens.Figure: The What would you like to create? page.Choose one of the available options:New Lesson HTML Document: Enter a title and use the HTML editor to create your new content item. Use the visibility toggle to make the HTML document visible or hidden from students  on creation and click Save.WebLink: Refer to Create material by adding a link below.AssignmentDiscussion: Choose a Forum and Enter a Name and Description, and then click Create and Insert.Quiz: Enter a Name and Description, and then click Create and Insert. Note: You will need to access the Quiz in the Quizzes tool to add questions and edit the settings.Checklist: Enter a Name and Description, and then click Create and Insert.Self-Assessments: Enter a Name and Description, and then click Create and Insert.Surveys: Enter a Name and Description, and then click Create and Insert.
Note: It is no longer possible to create a new External Tool Activity using the Create New menu. Instead, click Add Existing, click External Tool Activity, and then click Create New LTI Link.
Video: How to add new materials

Link to external resources in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
To supplement your course material with external resources, link out to resources using a web link. 
To link to external resources
From your course navbar, click Content.
Click Create New.
Click WebLink.
From the New Web Link page, do the following:Figure: The New Web Link page.Enter the display name in the Name field and the web address in the Link field.  A preview of the link appears under My Link.If desired,  enter a Due Date, Start Date, and End Date.Under Display Options, do one of the following:Select the Embed on the page (iframe) radio button to embed a secure (https) link in the Lessons viewer.Select the Open in a new tab radio button.
Click Save.
An external link to learning materials is added to Content.
Embedding versus linking to external resources in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Linking and embedding both direct students to external resources but are different in how the pathway to the resource is displayed. Linking is when you copy the URL or link address for a resource and then paste it into your course as either a hyperlink or the link itself. When students click the link or hyperlink, they are redirected away from your course to the resource on another web page.
Embedding allows students to view external media on the same page in your course. For example, if you embed a video into a course module, students can view the video in the module instead of being redirected to another web page. 
Linking is best when you want students to read longer resources, like an article. Embedding is best when you have playable media that you want students to watch or listen to while they go through content.
To link to external resources
On your course homepage, navigate to Content.
Click the Content topic where you want to add your link. 
Click Options (...) > Edit. If you want to create a new Content topic, click Create New > New Lesson.

Figure: The Options menu showing the Edit button.
Note: The following steps are applicable for linking wherever Brightspace Editor is available. Linking is not limited to the Content tool; and can be used in tools like Announcements, Assignments, Discussions, Quizzes, and widgets.
Copy the link address from the resource you want to link to. While you can place just the link in your topic, the best way is to hyperlink text so that you can include the name of the resource and reduce the visual weight for your students.
In Brightspace Editor, write the name of your linked resource. 
With your cursor, highlight the resource name. In the context menu above the name, click the Add/Edit Link button.

Figure: Highlighted text with the context menu.
Enter the link address into the Link field and click Create. The linked text appears as a default blue color.
Click Save and Close.
You have added a hyperlink to your Content topic. Students will be redirected to the external resource by clicking on the hyperlink.
Figure: A Content topic with a hyperlink.
To embed an external resource
On your course homepage, navigate to Content.
Click the Content topic where you want to embed your media. 
Click Options (...) > Edit. If you want to create a new Content topic, click Create New > New Lesson.

Figure: The Options menu showing the Edit button.
Note: The following steps are applicable for embedding media wherever Brightspace Editor is available. Embedding is not limited to the Content tool; and can be used in tools like Announcements, Assignments, Discussions, Quizzes, and widgets.
Navigate to the media you want to embed. For this example, we will embed a YouTube video. 
In YouTube, click Share > Embed. 
The embed code appears in the right panel. Click the Copy button to copy the embedded code.

Figure: The embed code displayed in YouTube with the Copy button.
In your Content topic, click Insert Stuff.

Figure: The Insert Stuff button.
In the Insert Stuff dialog, scroll down and click Enter Embed Code.
Paste your embed code into the textbox and click Next.

Figure: The Insert Stuff dialog showing embed code.
Wait while your video loads in the dialog. Then click Insert.

Figure: The embedded video preview.
Click Save and Close.
Your media has been embedded in your Content topic. Students can play the media within your Content topic instead of being redirected to YouTube.

Figure: An embedded video in a Content topic.
Set material as optional or required in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can set your course materials as Optional or Required for learners to improve their experience and manage their learning time more effectively.
To set material as Optional or Required

From the table of contents, select the desired material.


Click the  Options (...) menu .


 Select Set as Optional or Set as Required.


Figure: The More Options menu for a required content topic, showing the Set as Optional option.
Note: Learners using New Learner Experience (LX) can see if a topic is Optional or Required, but learners and instructors using New Content Experience (Lessons) cannot.
Add existing material in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can also add existing material to your course from the New Content Experience (Lessons). To clearly indicate where you are adding material, the top of the Add Existing menu displays breadcrumbs. This also allows you to easily navigate up the tree to add material at different levels.
To add existing material
From your course navbar, click Content.
From the table of contents, select the unit, lesson, or folder you are adding material to.
Click Add Existing. The What would you like to add? page opens.Figure: The What would you like to add? page.
Choose one of the available options:Google Drive: Click Continue to Google Drive > Allow> choose an item to add.Note: When adding private files from a Google Drive account to Brightspace, a notification indicates if the file is private, and teachers are given the option to change permissions so that anyone with the link can view the file.OneDrive: Click Continue to OneDrive > select your account > enter credentials and click Accept > choose an item to add.Assignment: Select an assignment from the list.Discussion: Select a discussion forum > click a discussion topic.Quiz: Select a quiz from the list.Checklist: Select a checklist from the list.External Tool Activity: Select from the tool providers that are in use by your institution, or click Create a New LTI Link to register a new LTI link.SCORM/xAPI Object: Select a SCORM course package to import into the Lessons tool.LOR: Search or browse for a learning object from Brightspace Learning Repository (LOR). A learning object can be a quiz, presentation, image, video, or any other kind of document or file you use to create course content and learning materials for online learning.Drag and drop a file onto the dialog or click browse to select a file from your computer, course files, or a public file. The file is added to the selected unit, lesson, or folder.
Note: When you add an existing assignment, discussion, quiz, or survey to a content topic, the content topic's Visibility state syncs with the Visibility state of these existing activities. For example, if you add an existing assignment that is Visible to content, the content topic maps to the assignment's visibility state and becomes Visible.
Video: Add external content to a course

Video: Copy existing course content into a course

Replace uploaded files in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can replace uploaded .PDF, Word, PowerPoint (.PPT), and image files that you added to a unit, lesson, or folder in the New Content Experience.
To replace uploaded files
From your course navbar, click Content.
From the table of contents, select the .PDF, Word, .PPT, or image file you want to replace.
Click the Options menu and then select, Edit.Figure: The New Content Experience, highlighting the Edit option from the Optionsmenu.
Click Replace.
Select the updated file you want to add from your computer, course files, or a public file.
Click Add.
The selected file is replaced.
Arrange materials in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Units, lessons, and materials can all be rearranged by dragging and dropping them to the desired position.
Note: When moving Units and Lessons, the number assigned is automatically updated (e.g. Unit 2 becomes Unit 4 if it is moved into that position).
To arrange materials
From the content area's table of contents, click and hold a collapsed unit, lesson, or material.
Do one any of the following:Drag it to the desired position and release your click.From the (...) Options menu, select Move to or Reorder.Use the arrow keys on your keyboard to set the new location of the unit, lesson, or material.
Click Done.
The selected material is moved to a new location in your course table of contents.
Video: How to rearrange units, lessons, and materials

Edit materials in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can make updates or changes to your existing materials in the New Content Experience (Lessons).
To edit materials
From the table of contents, select a unit, lesson, or material.
Click the (...) Options menu and select Edit.Figure: The Edit option for selected material.
Update the item.
Click Save.
The selected unit, lesson, or material is edited and saved.
Delete materials using the New Content Experience (Lessons)
Delete selected materials from your units or lessons 
To delete materials

From your course navbar, click Content.


From the table of contents, select a unit, lesson, and material.


Click the  Options (...) menu.


 Select Delete.


Select one of the following options:

Remove the topic from Content but keep the associated file or activity in the course



Permanently delete both the topic from Content and the associated file or activity from the course


Click Delete.


Figure: The More Options menu for a required content topic, showing the Delete option.
The selected course materials are deleted.
Post materials to your course homepage
Use Content to post discussions, quizzes, or assignments directly to your homepage on the Activity Feed widget.
Note: Your course homepage must include the Activity Feed widget for to post materials from Content. Refer to the Create a widget-based homepage for more details about using widgets on your homepage.
To post materials to your course homepage
From your course navbar, click Content.
Select a content item from the table of contents.
Click the (...) Options menu and select Post to Course Homepage.
From the Create a post dialog, do the following:Figure: The Create a post dialog.Enter a message to share with students.If desired, deselect Allow Comments.
If you want to schedule the post later, click Post Later and do the following:Choose a date and time and click Schedule Post.
Click Post.Figure: Material posted to from Content to the Activity Feed widget.
The selected material is posted to your course homepage on the Activity Feed widget.
When browsing in Lessons, a unique URL is assigned to each unit, module, topic, and lesson. This allows instructors to link to a specific location in Lessons without learners having to navigate to the item manually.
When creating a new HTML document, you can insert a link to a specific location in Lessons using the HTML toolbar.

In Lessons, click Create New.


Click HTML Document.


From the toolbar, click Insert Quicklink.


Click Content.


Find and select the material to create a link to, and then click Save


Click Save.

What kinds of files can I use with Lessons?

Extension


Notes


PDF, JPG, JPEG, PNG, BMP, GIF, MP4, OGV, WEBM, OGG, AAC, FLAC, MP3


Files with these extensions display in the embedded viewer in Lessons.
Note: AAC and FLAC do not render inline when in immersive learner view


DOC, DOCX, PPT, PPTX, PPS, RTF, ODT, ODP, XLS, XLSX


Files with these extensions display in the embedded view only if Document Conversion Service is turned on for your organization

Note: All other file types uploaded to Lessons appear as download links for users to view outside of Brightspace.



--------------------------------------------------


Associate course content with Standards

Use Standards to associate course content with learning expectations and to add value to your students' coursework. 
Notes: 
Learning Standards must be enabled and set up for your organization in order to see standards options in Content. 
The name of the Learning Outcomes tool and some menu items and links therein depend on the language term defined by your organization. Based on that setting, the Standards link in Content might be labeled Competencies, Expectations, Objectives, or Learning Outcomes. 
Add standards to  content topics
Add standards while creating new content topic types including: Assignments, Discussions, HTML Documents, Uploaded files (such as PDF documents), Weblinks, LTI, LOR and SCORM Packages, and Media (audio and video) files. 
To add standards to content topics
From Content, click Create New and choose a content topic type that supports standards alignment.
On the New [content type] page, enter the details in the relevant fields, then click Standards.

Figure: Click the Standards link that appears on the new content type page to align standards to your content. 
Select the check boxes for the standards that align to your content topic.
Click Save. 
Edit standards alignment for a course
From the content area, select a unit or an item of course material.
From the (...) Options menu, select View Standards.
Click Edit Standards Alignments and select check boxes for the standards that align to your content topic.
Click Save Changes.
Click X to exit the standards information for the content topic.
You have edited standards alignment for a course.
Video: Edit Course Standards Alignment

Identify gaps in course standards
To identify gaps in standards
Navigate to Content. 
Click Standards.

Figure: Click the Standards option in Content to view the Standards Coverage page. 
Select the Display only standards which have no course material check box.

Figure: Click the Display only standards which have no course material check box in Standards Coverage.
Determine if any standards are not linked to course materials.
Close the dialog and select a unit from the table of contents.
From the Options (...) menu, select View Standards.

Figure: Click the View Standards option in the Options (...) menu. 
Click Edit Standards Alignments.

Figure: Click Edit Standards Alignment.
Click the check boxes of any of the available standards to associate them with material from the selected unit.
Click Save Changes.
Click X to exit standards information.
You have associated course content with your Standards.
Video: Locate Gaps in Course Standards




--------------------------------------------------


Set a course timeframe

To help keep instructors on track with their course materials, pacing (previously known as scheduling) suggests when to start teaching different course materials in chronologically sequenced content units. When you pace a course, you define a start and end date for pacing content units evenly within the specified date range. The pace period can be modified at any time and is only visible to instructors (it does not affect when content is available to learners, this is controlled by the availability dates). It is useful for keeping to a set schedule and ensuring there is enough time to complete all materials in the allotted time.
The default date range is determined by the start and end date of the course. If no start and end date is set for the course, the start and end date of the semester is used. 
From the content area, click the Course options menu and select Pace Course.
Set pacing dates. To turn off pacing dates, click X.
Click Save.
Note: Pacing in an existing course does not copy over to a new course (it turns off in the new course).  When availability and due dates are enabled in a course, pacing options and dates are hidden.



--------------------------------------------------


ReadSpeaker integrations for Lessons

The Lessons tool supports the following ReadSpeaker integrations:
The ReadSpeaker HTML content integration solution automatically enables ReadSpeaker online text-to-speech technology for HTML content in the Lessons tool. Any student can hear their HTML course content spoken aloud or download it as an MP3 using their internet browser. Students can also highlight and play back a subset of the course content.
The ReadSpeaker docReader integration provides audio rendering of supported document types in the Lessons tool.
To enable the ReadSpeaker integrations
Contact ReadSpeaker to purchase licensing and obtain integration keys.
Implement the ReadSpeaker integrations in your Brightspace instance, as described in the ReadSpeaker docReader and ReadSpeaker for HTML content topics.
In Content, click the Listen ReadSpeaker icon to launch the ReadSpeaker integration.




--------------------------------------------------


Improve navigation in multi-page content topics

To provide seamless navigation in multi-page content topics, course designers can add a D2L JavaScript solution to HTML content topics containing links to multiple HTML pages. With this JavaScript, when a learner navigates to a multi-page content topic, the links to the HTML pages are hidden in the multi-page content topic, and the Content tool's next and previous buttons navigate between the linked HTML pages, instead of navigating between content topics. Without this JavaScript, learners might miss the links to the HTML pages and click the Content tool's next button, navigating to the next content topic.
Note: A course designer with advanced experience in HTML and JavaScript must add the D2L JavaScript solution to a multi-page HTML content topic in a Lessons-enabled course.
Using multi-page navigation
To leverage the multi-page topic navigation, course designers must include several JavaScript components and add a small bit of special markup to their HTML.
Add css styling to hide your navigation (optional, but recommended)
You can choose to use HTML like the following example to hide your navigation elements. Hiding your internal navigation elements help reduce confusion to learners since it results in only the Brightspace navigation being available.

<style>
.d2l-hide { display: none; }
</style>

Include the JavaScript
There are three JavaScript references to include in your HTML. You should reference the fully qualified path to these resources by using your own Brightspace domain in the URL. For example:

1. Jquery (Available under MIT License)
<script src=”https://s.brightspace.com/lib/jquery/1.11.0/jquery.min.js"></script>
2. Jquery simulate (Available under MIT License)
<script src=" /d2l/lms/content/static/scripts/jquery.Simulate/jquery.simulate.js">
</script>
3.d2l-nav.js (D2L Copyright)
<script src=" /d2l/lms/content/static/scripts/d2l-nav.js"></script>

Hide your navigation (optional, but recommended)
Mark up your navigation to leverage the CSS added in the first step. For example:

<div id=”nav” class="d2l-hide">
<a href="page1.html">Page 1/4 - What is Lorem Ipsum?</a>
<a href="page3.html">Page 3/4 - Why do we use it?</a>
</div>

Mark up your navigation to identify next and previous links
Use the d2l-nav-next and d2l-nav-prev classes to identify which href links should be used when the learner clicks the next and previous links. For example:

<div id=”nav” class="d2l-hide">
<a href="page1.html" class=”d2l-nav-next”>Page 1/4 - What</a>
<a href="page3.html" class=”d2l-nav-prev”>Page 3/4 – Why</a>
</div>




--------------------------------------------------


Hide Content topics, modules, and downloads

You can hide topics, modules, and downloads from your students  in the Classic Content Experience. 
Note: For more information about the differences between the Classic Content Experience and the New Content Experience (Lessons), refer to Content experiences.
Hide content topics and modules in the Classic Content Experience
You can hide individual topics or entire content modules in the Classic Content Experience. 
To hide content topics and modules
Navigate to Content.
Open the context menu of the topic or module you want to hide.
Do one of the following:Select Hide from Users.Figure: Click the context menu next to a module title  and select Hide from Users.Figure: Click the context menu next to a topic and select Hide from Users.Select the visibility icon for the topic or module. A visibility toggle appears to allow you to change between Visible and Hidden.Figure: Toggle a topic or module to Hidden.
The visibility status of a topic appears when the topic is not visible,  the table of contents is in bulk edit mode, or when a topic is in edit-in-place mode. The table of contents fly-out menu no longer provides the ability to switch the visibility of a topic or module. If a topic or module is already hidden, the hidden icon indicates its status. Open the context menu and select Make Visible to Users to allow user access. When creating activities from Content, (e.g. New Checklist, New Discussion, New Assignment, etc.) a Hide from Users checkbox displays below the title to allow instructors to easily control the visibility of the new activity.
Disable download feature in Content
To disable the ability for students to download content, the following permissions must be disabled for students in the Content tool:
Compile and Download Content
Download Content Topics
Once these permissions are disabled, students will not be able to see the Download button.
This solution requires an administrator navigate to Roles and Permissions and perform the updates. This is not configurable on a course-by-course basis.



--------------------------------------------------


What types of files can I use for course content?

You can upload various documents, images, and video file types to use for course content.  Students  can view the files inline. To display documents inline, the Document Conversion Service converts documents uploaded to the Content tool into PDFs. The documents are converted during upload instead of during student  access, which reduces wait times when rendering the documents. 
Note:  For best performance, D2L recommends uploading all non-HTML documents as PDF files, since PDF files do not go through the conversion process. Students  can download or print files if they have the correct permissions. When students  download documents, they are saved in their native file formats. For more information about the permissions required to download or print files, contact your administrator.
The following table displays the file extensions and file types that you can use for course content.
File extensions and types that you can use for course content.

File Extension


File Type


Notes


HTM, HTML, MHT, MHTML


Web document


Brightspace strips the <title> tag and text within the tag from user created web documents


RTF, PPT, PPS, PDF, DOC, DOCX, PPTX, XML, XLS, TXT, WPD, XLSX, XLS


Text document


When embedded in Content, PowerPoint presentations that contain animations do not play; however, downloading the PowerPoint presentations saves them in their native file format, allowing the animations to play


JPG, JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, TIF, TIFF


Image


 


SWF, MPG, MPEG, RM, MP3, MP4, M4V, M4A, AVI, WAV, RAM, ASF, MOV, RA


Media


The extensions MP4, M4V, and M4A allow users to drag entire albums, video podcasts, and movies from iTunes





--------------------------------------------------


Add availability and due dates in Content

Start and end dates specify when learners can access a topic or module. If you set a start, end, or due date for a topic or module, it appears on the Upcoming Events page and the Agenda view in the Calendar tool. Setting an end date later than the due date for a topic enables learners to access and complete the topic from the Overdue tab on the Course Schedule page. Topics with a due date and no end date also appear in the Overdue tab on the Course Schedule page. 
Note: Adding a due date to a content item that is associated to an assignment  overrides an existing end date that is further in the future. The due date also overrides the end date in the Calendar tool.
To add availability and due dates in the New Content Experience
Navigate to Content.
Navigate to the module where you want to add availability and due dates and click Options (...) > Edit.

Figure: Select Edit from the Options (...) dropdown menu to make changes to the module. 
On the Edit Topic page, add your desired due date in the Due Date field.

Figure: Enter a due date into the Due Date field in the Edit Topic page's primary panel.
In the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion, enter a Start Date and End Date.

Figure: Enter the Start Date and End Date in the Availability Dates & Conditions section. One or both can be left blank. 
Toggle the Visibility ON or OFF.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: The Visibility toggle and Save and Close and Save options.
To add availability and due dates in the Classic Content experience
On the navbar, click  Content.
On the  Table of Contents page, click Bulk Edit.
For any topic or module that you want to add availability or due dates to, click Add dates and restrictions.
Do any of the following:To add a start date, click Add start date. Enter your start date details.To add a due date, click Add due date. Enter your due date details.To add an end date, click Add end date. Enter your end date details.
Click Update.
Click Done Editing.




--------------------------------------------------


Add a Release Condition to Content

Add a release condition in the New Content Experience
Navigate to Content.
In the module where you want to add release conditions, do one of the following: Click Options (...) > Edit. Expand the Availability Dates & Conditions section, click the Add Release Condition drop-down. Select Create New or Add Existing. Figure: Click the Add Release Condition drop-down to open the Release Conditions dialog.Click Options (...) > View Release Conditions.Figure: Click  View Release Conditions from the Options (...) drop-down menu. 
In the Release Conditions dialog, do one of the following:

Figure: The Release Conditions dialog showing the Create and Browse options.
Click Browse to search for existing release conditions. Select the release conditions you want to add and then click Attach.

Figure: The Attach an Existing Condition dialog.
Click Create to create a new release condition. Choose a Condition Type and enter the appropriate details. Then, click Create.

Figure: The Create a Release Condition dialog.
Click Save or Save and Close. 
Add a release condition in the Classic Content Experience
On the course navbar, click Content.
In the Table of Contents, locate the content item you want to have a release condition.
Open the context menu, and select Edit Properties In-place.
Click Add dates and restrictions…, and under Release Conditions click Create.
From the Condition Type menu, select the condition you want to create.
Add Condition Details, and click Create.
Click Update to save your changes. The release condition details are now listed below the topic name.




--------------------------------------------------


Manage Rubrics through the Quicklinks menu

To make rubrics more accessible without navigating directly to Rubrics, you can access Rubrics through the Quicklinks menu of Brightspace Editor.
Note: To ensure that you can create quicklinks directly to rubrics and to ensure that students can see the rubrics, you must have required permissions. Contact your administrator for more information. Only rubrics with Visible to all Users selected can be added as a quicklink. To learn more about creating a rubric, refer to Create a rubric using the Rubrics tool. To learn more about Brightspace Editor, refer to About Brightspace Editor. 
Create a quicklink to a rubric in the New Content Experience
You can create a quicklink to a rubric when creating a new lesson in the New Content Experience.
Note: For more information about the Classic Content Experience and the New Content Experience (Lessons), refer to Content experiences.
To create a quicklink to a rubric in the New Content Experience
Navigate to Content.
Click Create New > New Lesson.
                Figure: Select New Lesson to being creating a lesson.
Enter the details for your new lesson.
In the Description field, click the Insert Quicklink icon.Figure: From the top menu bar, click the Insert Quicklink icon.
In the Insert Quicklink dialog, click Rubrics.Figure: Select Rubrics from the Insert Quicklink dialog.
Do one of the following:Search for and click a rubric displayed in the list. The rubric is added to the text editor as a link.To create a new rubric to add, or edit an existing rubric, click Manage Rubrics.Figure: Click Manage Rubrics to go to the Rubrics page of the Rubrics tool.
Toggle the Visibility to either Hidden or Visible.
Click Save and Close.Figure: Choose whether you want your new lesson to be Hidden or Visible before saving.
Create a quicklink to a rubric in Classic Content
You can create a quicklink to a rubric in any module in the Classic Content Experience.
Note: For more information about the Classic Content Experience and the New Content Experience (Lessons), refer to Content experiences.
To create a quicklink to a rubric in Classic Content
In Content, click Add a module... to name and create a new module.
Click Upload/Create, and select Create a File from the drop-down menu.
Click Insert Quicklink.Figure: Click the Insert Quicklink icon to open the Insert Quicklink dialog.
In the Insert Quicklink dialog, click Rubrics.Figure: Select Rubrics from the Insert Quicklink dialog.
Do one of the following:Search for and click a rubric displayed in the list. The rubric is added to the text editor as a link.To create a new rubric to add, or edit an existing rubric, click Manage Rubrics.Figure: Click Manage Rubrics to go to the Rubrics page of the Rubrics tool.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Use HTML templates in Content

Use HTML templates in your course to improve the visual quality of your content and encourage student engagement.
Add HTML templates in the New Content Experience
Navigate to Content.
Select Create New > HTML Document.

Figure: The HTML Document option.
On the New HTML File page, click Select Template.
Click an available template or select Browse for a Template to view other template offerings.

Figure: The Select Template option with the template drop-down list.
Edit your topic with the new template.
Toggle the Visibility to ON or OFF.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: The Visibility toggle and Save and Close option.
Add HTML templates in Classic Content
On the navbar, click Content.
Click  Settings.
In the Content Authoring area, select the Enable HTML Templates check box.
                       To make it easier to find HTML templates, select the Sort HTML Templates by name option  to sort templates in alphanumeric order based on filename.Administrators can set the default sort order for the org or specific org units by editing a configuration variable. By default, HTML templates are sorted alphanumerically based on directory structure.                   
If you want to change where your templates are located, click Change Path. Select your new location, then click Select Path.
Click Save.
Video: Edit HTML Templates in Classic Content




--------------------------------------------------


Add a learning objective to a content topic

You can associate content, including LTI and SCORM objects, with learning objectives directly from the Content tool. 
Note: You must have existing learning objectives in the Competencies tool before you can create these associations. Refer to Create a learning objective for more information.
Add or edit a learning objective to a content topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons)
You can add a learning objective to a content topic in the New Content Experience (Lessons).Note: Your administrator can turn the New Content Experience ON or OFF for all courses at the org level. However, your administrator can also assign your role the ability to switch between content experiences from your course.   Refer to Content experiences to learn more about the differences between the Classic Content Experience and the New Content Experience. Contact your administrator for more information about turning on the New Content Experience.
To add a learning objective to a content topic
Open the course in which you want to add a learning objective to a topic. 
On the navbar, click Content.
On the Table of Contents pane, click the topic you want to associate with a learning objective.
Click the Options icon (...), and select Edit.Figure: Click Options to edit your selected topic.
In the collapsible Feedback panel, click Manage Learning Objectives.
Do one of the following: Click Associate Learning Objectives, locate the learning objective you want to add, and click Add Selected.Click the More menu on the right side of an existing objective, and click Edit Learning Objective or Remove Learning Objective. 
Click Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Insert and edit images with Brightspace Editor

The Insert Image option is available wherever the Brightspace Editor is present, allowing you to add and edit images as desired.
Note: Images respect the settings you define in the Attributes page.
Insert images with Brightspace Editor
Navigate to anywhere Brightspace Editor is available, like Content or Discussions.
In Brightspace Editor, click the Insert Image icon. Figure: The Insert Image icon.
In the Add a File dialog, click either My Computer or Course Offering Files  and select the image you want to insert, or click URL and link out to the image you want to insert. Note: If you want to save the image file in a specific location, click Choose Destination and select the path or create a new folder in which you want to save the same.Figure: The Add a File dialog showing the My Computer, Course Offering Files, and URL options.
Click Add. Figure: The Add option in the Add a File dialog.
Enter Alternative Text and click OK.Figure: The Provide Alternative Text dialog with the OK option.
Edit images in Brightspace Editor
Navigate to anywhere Brightspace Editor is available, like Content or Discussions.
Right-click on the image you want to update and click Edit image.Figure: The Edit image option.
In the Edit Image dialog, you can edit your image using the following options:CropResizeOrientation BrightnessSharpen ContrastColor levelsGammaInvertFigure: The Edit Image dialog with the options for editing an image.Note: 
Click Save.
Note: Image changes are saved to Manage Files at the course-level root, or, depending on user permissions, as new file attachments to the item (such as the discussion) every time a change is made. Multiple edits, in turn, create multiple files. If the course is copied, all image edits are copied as well. Edited images are saved with their original names followed by a date-time string, which helps to find changed pictures easily when browsing files in Manage Files.



--------------------------------------------------


Create and insert a video note in Brightspace Editor

 Record videos up to 25 minutes long and add them anywhere where the Brightspace Editor is available. To help ensure all users can learn without barriers, closed captions are automatically created.
Note: The ability to add video notes is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see the Add Video Note option, you do not have the required permission. Videos respect the settings you define in the Attributes page.
Navigate to the specific area in your course where you want to add a Video Note (Assignments, Discussions, Quizzes).
Within the Brightspace Editor, click Insert Stuff.

Figure: The Insert Stuff button in Brightspace Editor.
In the new dialog box, click Add Video Note.
Note: Ensure that you allow Brightspace to access your device’s camera and microphone.
To record your message, click New Recording.
To finalize your message, click Stop Recording.
Click Next.

Figure: The Insert Video Note dialog box.
Enter a Title, Description, and select Audio Language.
To generate captions automatically, select Automatically generate captions from audio.
Note: You must choose an Audio Language in order to generate captions.
Click Next.
Click Insert.
Reuse video notes
If you created previous video notes, and if you have the permissions to search and insert video notes, you can reuse them where applicable.
Navigate to the specific area where you want to reuse an existing video note.
In the Brightspace Editor, click the Insert Stuff icon.
Click Video Note Search.

Figure: The Video Note Search option within the Insert Stuff dialog box.
Enter your search terms in the Search Notes field, then click Search. You can also perform a blank search to see all search results.
Select the video you want to reuse and click Next.
You can preview the video notes before you insert and reuse it.
Click Insert.
There are two potential reasons your content may not be working:

When using the Insert Stuff framework to add a YouTube video or other embedded media in a Content frame, the certain internet browsers block the content because it is unsecure without informing the user that there is actually an invisible block around where the media should be. This makes it appear as if the insert failed even though the browser is actually blocking the unsecure content. 
To resolve this issue, the URL that is linked from within the Content frames must use https:// and not an http:// URL. It may be necessary to reconsider linking to content If the destination site doesn't have an https://. If it is necessary, ensure that your students know that they need to enable the ability to view unsecure content.


It is possible your course is Sandboxed. To enhance the security of content files that execute scripts to create extra-rich HTML experiences (such as objects that can execute JavaScript), there is a sandboxing feature that creates a secure iFrame around the HTML file. This allows an HTML file to execute scripts (such as JavaScript) within the iFrame only but will prevent them from executing outside the iFrame (against the domain). This enables some flexibility in creating rich content, and provides reassurance for the security-conscious that end user information remains secure in all situations (such as in courses where non-privileged roles are contributing content.) 
To find out if your course is sandboxed, navigate to Course Admin  > Course Offering Information. An indication if your course is sandboxed is available on that page.Note: The configuration variables d2l.Security.ContentSandboxDefault and d2l.Security.ContentApplySandbox need to be on for your role.





--------------------------------------------------


Insert and edit equations with Equation Editor

The Graphical Equation Editor is a Javascript-based application within the HTML Editor tool that enables users to add graphical, chemistry, MathML, and LaTeX equations to their content. The editor provides the necessary elements to construct equations quickly and easily. Each button in the editor tool bar opens a palette of related mathematical symbols. When equations are inserted into the HTML Editor, you can see the equations inline while  editing your work. You can insert equations by typing them into the HTML Editor.
Note: LaTeX is available in the new quizzing experience. Equations respect the settings you define in the Attributes page, including Text Orientation.
Before using the Editor:
Ensure that you have installed the latest version of your internet browser and that you enable Javascript.
Disable any software or browser settings that block pop-up windows.
Video: Using the Equation Editor

Inserting equations in the Brightspace Editor
The Graphical Equation Editor enables users to insert mathematical equations within the Brightspace Editor. It supports the input of MathML, LaTeX, graphical, and chemistry equations. 
Note: LaTeX is available in the new quizzing experience.
The Graphical Equation Editor in Brightspace 10.2 and newer does not require Java support or have specific browser compatibility considerations. Existing equations created before Brightspace 10.2 will still require Java Applet support but are up-converted to MathML upon an edit. 

Concept


Description


MathML equation


MathML is a standard adopted by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). It uses XML to describe mathematical notation by capturing both its structure and content. This enables MathML to support visual display and assistive technology access.
As a standard, Brightspacestores and displays all equations in the MathML format, regardless of the format you use to enter equations. Brightspace uses the MathJax JavaScript engine to display MathML equations. 


LaTeX equation


LaTeX is a typesetting system based on TeX. It provides a text syntax for complex mathematical formulae. Brightspace stores equations entered in LaTeX format as MathML to ensure consistency and accessibility.

Chemistry equation
The Chemistry equation option offers specialized chemistry symbols for inorganic chemistry formulas. 
Graphical equation
The Graphical equation option offers 10 tabs of symbols, arrows, Greek letters and numbers, matrices, scripts and layouts, decorations, big operators, calculus, and context for creating math equations. 
Tabs in the Graphical Equation Editor

Icon


Name


Description


Chemistry tab

Add specialized chemistry symbols for inorganic chemistry equations
Note: This tab only appears when you select the Chemistry equation option





General tab


Add a template for building equations. 
Add and edit text in the equation using the Cut, Copy, Paste, Undo, Color, and other text editing function





Symbols tab


Add mathematical symbols to equations





Arrows tab


Update or add arrows to equations





Greek and letters tab


Update or add uppercase and lowercase Greek characters to equations





Matrices tab


Update or add matrices to equations





Scripts and layout tab


Add scripts or layouts to build equations





Decorations tab


Add fences such as brackets and vertical bars around text fields





Big operators tab


Update or add big operators to equations





Calculus tab


Add a template for building Calculus equations

Create an equation using classic input mode
Access the Brightspace Editor in the tool where you want to create an equation.
From the Graphical equation drop-down list, do one of the following:To insert a graphical equation, click Graphical equation.To insert a chemistry equation, click Chemistry equation.To insert a MathML equation, click MathML equation.To insert a LaTeX equation, click LaTeX equation.
In the Insert Equation window, enter your equation using keyboard characters and your cursor to select symbols from the tabs.
Click Insert.

Figure: The Insert Equation dialog box.
Edit an equation
Navigate to the course item that contains the equation you want to edit.
From the context menu of the course item, click Edit HTML.
In Brightspace Editor, click on the box with the  capital sigma sign.
From the Graphical equation drop-down list, do one of the following:To edit the equation using the graphical equation format, click Graphical equation.To edit the equation using the chemistry equation format, click Chemistry equation. To edit the equation using the MathML equation format, click MathML equation.To edit the equation using the LaTeX equation format, click LaTeX equation.Figure: The Graphical equation drop-down list of Brightspace Editor.
Make your changes.
Click Insert > Update.




--------------------------------------------------


About Brightspace Creator+

Brightspace Creator+ is a content authoring package that provides opportunities for users to create  highly desirable, engaging, and delightful experiences in minutes. With easy-to-use tools and leveraging existing workflows, creators can build dynamic content and media experiences that appeal to the love of learning, improve comprehension, and achieve high engagement for instructors and learners. 
Creator+ offers the following 4 main tools for content creators to enhance their course content:
 Insert Element enables users to easily and seamlessly create dynamic content and chunk concepts following instructional design best practices.
Practices to deepen comprehension and reinforce concepts using formative practice questions in Content HTML topics.
Advanced Media using Capture App to quickly capture screen and video learning assets that can be automatically captioned, edited, and used across your courses. 
Creator+ content templates that you can easily edit with Creator+ tools to get started quickly. Admins can use the Content Styler to centrally style content using a default cascading style sheet.
The Brightspace Creator+ package is an evolution of the former Engagement+ package and is available as an add-on to Brightspace. If you previously purchased the Engagement+ package, you are automatically licensed for the Creator+ package.



--------------------------------------------------


Using the Creator+ features of Brightspace Editor

The Creator+ package extends the Brightspace Editor with additional features to help you create more dynamic customized content. In addition to all the basic Brightspace Editor features, these Creator+ features make it easier for non-technical users to customize content to meet their needs. The Brightspace Editor Insert Element and Practices support using the HTML file language attribute to build content in the language of your learners. The language setting you set appears in content as well as on buttons to expand content, viewing solutions and scores on Practices, and ARIA labels. To use the language attribute in content, ensure the d2l.Tools.Content.ApplyPageLangAttribute is set.
About Insert Element
The Creator+ Insert Element tool allows content creators to add dynamic components with a user-friendly authoring experience that does not require HTML coding knowledge or experience. 
Administrators in organizations who have purchased the Creator+ add-on can turn on the Insert Element features as follows:
In Admin Tools, click Tools. 
Scroll down the tool list to find Insert Element.
Click the Availability toggle to switch it to On.
Note: There are no permissions required to use Insert Element; however, access to all Creator+ tools is controlled with the d2l.Tools.CreatorPlus.IsEnabled configuration variable.
To use the Insert Element features
In the Content tool, create a new content topic or open an existing content topic.
Click the Other Insert Options overflow menu in the Brightspace Editor.
Select Insert Element from the menu. 
Select the element you want to create from the available list, and then complete the fields to configure the element, as follows:Select Accordion. Select one of the Format Options to indicate if you want to number the accordian folders. Enter Learner Instructions to ensure that the learners know there is a dynamic element. Enter the Accordion Tab Title and Accordion Content of the first accordion tab. If you have more accordions to add, add the content as appropriate. Click Add Accordion Item if you need more accordions. Select Tabs. Select one of the Format Options to indicate if you want to the tabs to be horizontal or vertical. Enter Learner Instructions to ensure that the learners know there is a dynamic element. Enter the Tab Title and Tab Content of the first tab. If you have more tabs to add, add the content as appropriate. Click Add Tab Item if you need more tabsSelect Click and Reveal. Select one of the Format Options to indicate if you want the click trigger to have a question mark icon (Question) or text only (No Icon). Add Introductory Content to introduce the element. Enter Learner Instructions to ensure that the learners know there is a dynamic element. Enter the Button Label and Revealed Content. If you have more Click and Reveal elements to add, click Back and add another element. Select Callout. Select one of the Format Options. For more information about each, click the question mark icon beside the option title. Enter a Title and Callout Content for your element. If you have more Callout elements to add, click Back and add another element. Select Timeline. Select one of the Format Options to indicate if you want the timeline to have left-aligned or alternating entries. Enter the first Timeline Panel Title and Timeline Panel Text.  If you have more entries to add to the timeline, add the content as appropriate as appropriate. Click Add Item if you need more timeline panels. Select Stylized quote. Select one of the Format Options to indicate if you want standard size text or large focus. Enter the Quotation and Attribution.Select Flip cards.Enter Learner Instructions to ensure that the learners know there is a dynamic element. On the Front tab, enter the Title. If you want to include an image on the front of your flip card, click Add Image. Select an image file and add Alternative Text or indicate that the image is decorative. Then, click Save. Enter the Content you want to include on the front of the image. It is recommended that you include no more than 4 words or 25 characters. Repeat the process on the Back tab to configure the back of your flip card. If you want to add another flip card on the same row, to the right of the current flip card, click Add item. If you want to add a flip card on a different row, click Add Row. Select Carousel. Enter Learner Instructions to ensure that the learners know there is a dynamic element. Click Add Image, Add Title, or Add Text to configure your first carousel slide.    If you have more entries to add to the carousel, add the content as appropriate as appropriate. Click Add Slide if you need more carousel slides.  
When you are finished configuring each element, click Preview, and when you are satisfied with the element, click Insert.
To edit an inserted element
In Brightspace Editor, select the element you have added.
Click Edit using the icon at the top of the element to open the editing interface. You can also move the object up or down to change the order or delete the object from this panel. Note: If your element object is the top object on the page, the edit panel appears at the bottom of the object. 
Note: You can edit some aspects of the elements using the code editor; however, it is not possible to directly edit inserted elements outside the edit workflow in the WYSIWYG interface. You must launch the Insert Element edit workflow. 
Video: Creating Timelines with Creator+

Using Insert Element with templates
You can use Insert Element features with any client-created, Community, or Creative Services template. 
Note:  Creator+ elements are not logically isolated from the surrounding page and could be impacted by CSS rules on the parent page. The risk for conflicts is low when using Insert Element with custom CSS, however, D2l recommends testing Creator+ elements against your custom CSS frameworks.
Insert Practices
Creator+ Insert Practices empowers you to create formative and interactive learning activities to let learners test their comprehension and get immediate feedback on their understanding of a topic outside of a formal assessment. 
Important: Sandboxed courses do not render Practices. 
To turn on the Practice feature:
From your Organization home page, click Admin Tools.
Under Organization Related, click Organization Tools. 
Scroll down the Tool Availability list to find Practices.
Click the Availability toggle to ON
Note: There are no permissions required to use Practices; however, access to all Creator+ tools is controlled with the d2l.Tools.CreatorPlus.IsEnabled configuration variable.
After the Practices tool is turned on, Insert Practice appears in the Insert Other Options menu of the Brightspace Editor: 

Figure: The location of the Insert Practice option under Insert Other Options button.
Users can select a type of Practice from a menu, including:
Fill in the blanks - Drop-down selections or typed response
Multi-Select
Multiple Choice
Sequencing
Sorting
True or False
Each practice has its own workflow to complete the required information, and a preview accompanies the build so that course creators can observe how learners will experience the created practice. A preview accompanies the build so that course creators can observe how learners will experience the created practice.
Note: Practice scores are not saved or tracked; they are only intended to provide the learner with immediate feedback.
Add a Drop-down Fill in the Blanks practice
In the Content tool, click to open Brightspace Editor in a new or existing content topic.
From the Brightspace Editor navbar, click Insert Other Options > Insert Practice.
Click Dropdown Fill in the Blank.
Add a Title, Short Description, and Instructions.Note: The Short Description field is visible only to Content Editors when editing the Content Topic.
Add your Question Text. To create a blank space, type the word 'blank' and a number inside double square brackets, for example, [[blank1]].Figure: An example of question text with blanks.
Click Update Blanks.
Add the Correct Answer and at least one Incorrect Answer for each blank space. Use Add Incorrect Answer to add additional incorrect answers. To delete an answer, click the Trashcan icon.Figure: An example of correct and incorrect answers.
In the How will this practice be scored? field, choose one of the following options:All or Nothing (default)Correct SelectionsA preview of the practice appears to the right of the interface. You can check answers by clicking the corresponding button.
To view the practice as a user would see it, click Preview.
Click Insert once you have completed the practice.
Click the X button to close the Practice interface.
To edit the Practice, select the Dropdown Fill in the Blank practice and select Edit. You can also use this panel to delete or move the practice.
Add a Multi-Select practice
In the Content tool, click to open Brightspace Editor in a new or existing content topic.
From the Brightspace Editor navbar, click Insert Other Options > Insert Practice.
Click Multi-Select practice.
Add a Title, Short Description, and Instructions.Note: The Short Description field is visible only to Content Editors when editing the Content Topic.
Add your Question Text. To add an image to your question, click Add Image > Choose File; navigate to the image location and select it.To provide information for those with visual impairments, enter it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey any information needed to complete the question.Click Save.
Add Answers. Use the Add Answer link to add more answers. To delete an answer, click the Trashcan icon. If needed, add an image to your answer by clicking Add Image > Choose File. Then navigate to the image on your computer and select it.Add Alternative text to an image to provide information for those with visual impairments by entering it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey information.Click Save.
Select all correct answers.Figure: An example of selected correct answers for the Multi-Select practice.
To randomize the answer order, select Randomize answer order.
In the field How will this practice be scored?, choose one of the following options:All or Nothing (default)Right Minus Wrong SelectionA preview of the practice appears to the right of the interface. You can check answers by clicking the corresponding button.
To view the practice as a user would see it, click Preview.
Click Insert once you have completed the practice.
Click the X button to close the Practice interface.
To edit the Practice, select Multi-Select practice and click Edit. You can also use this panel to delete or move the practice.
Add a Multiple Choice practice
In the Content tool, click to open Brightspace Editor in a new or existing content topic.
From the editor navbar, click Insert Other Options > Insert Practice.
Click Multiple Choice practice.
Add a Title, Short Description, and Instructions.Note: The Short Description field is visible only to Content Editors when editing the Content Topic.
Add your Question Text. To add an image to your question, click Add Image > Choose File; then navigate to the image location and select it.To provide information for those with visual impairments, enter it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey any information needed to complete the question.Click Save.
Add Answers. Click the Add Answer link to add additional answers. To delete an answer, click the Trashcan icon. To add an image to your answer, click Add Image > Choose File. Then navigate to the image location and select it.To provide information for those with visual impairments, enter it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey any information needed to convey the answer.Click Save.
Select the correct answer. You can select only one correct answer for each question.Figure: An example of a selected correct  answer for the Multiple Choice practice.
To randomize the answer order, select Randomize answer order.A preview of the practice appears to the right of the interface. You can check answers by clicking the corresponding button.
To view the practice as a user would see it, click Preview.
Click Insert once you have completed the practice.
Click the X button to close the Practice interface.
To edit the Practice, select Multiple Choice practice and click Edit. You can also use this panel to delete or move the practice.
Add a Sorting Practice
In the Content tool, click to open Brightspace Editor in a new or existing content topic.
From the editor navbar, click Insert Other Options > Insert Practice.
Click Sorting.
Add a Title, Short Description, and Instructions.Note: The Short Description field is visible only to Content Editors when editing the Content Topic.
To indicate the total number of items in each category, click the Display Item Count per Category check box.
For each category, add a Category Label. Additionally, you have the following options:There are four categories by default.Use the arrow buttons to re-arrange the order of categories.To delete a category, click the Trashcan icon.
To add an image to a category, click Add Image > Choose File; then navigate to the image location and select it.To provide information for those with visual impairments, enter it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey any information required to understand the category.Click Save.
To add sortable items to a category, click the Category box and then enter the name of the item. Additionally, you have the following options:Each category has one sortable item by default.To delete a sortable item, click the Trashcan icon.To add additional sortable items to the category, click Add Sortable Item.
To add an image to a sortable item, Click Add Image > Choose File; then navigate to the image location and select it.To provide information for those with visual impairments, enter it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey information.Click Save.A preview of the practice appears to the right of the interface.
To view the practice as a user would see it, click Preview.
Click Insert once you have completed the practice.
Click the X button to close the Practice interface.
To edit the Practice, select the Sorting practice and click Edit. You can also use this panel to delete or move the practice.
Add a Sequencing Practice
In the Content tool, click to open Brightspace Editor in a new or existing content topic. 
From the Brightspace Editor navbar, click Insert Other Options > Insert Practice.
Click Sequencing.
Add a Title, Short Description, and Instructions.Note: The Short Description field is visible only to Content Editors when editing the Content Topic.
To have the sequence numbered, click the Display Numeric Sequence check box.
Add a Sequence Step and Sequenceable Item for each Sequence Step. Additionally, you have the following options:There are four Sequence Steps by default.To delete a Sequence Step, click the Trashcan icon.To add additional Sequence Steps, click Add Sequence Step.
To add an image to a Sequence Step or Sequenceable Item, click Add Image > Choose File. Then navigate to the image location and select it.To provide information for those with visual impairments, enter it into the Alternative Text field.Click the This Image is Decorative check box if the image does not convey information.Click Save.A preview of the practice appears to the right of the interface.
To view the practice as a user would see it, click Preview.
Click Insert once you have completed the practice.
Click the X button to close the Practice interface.
To edit the Practice, select the Sequencing practice  and click Edit. You can also use this panel to delete or move the practice.
Add a True or False practice
In the Content tool, click to open Brightspace Editor in a new or existing content topic.
From the Brightspace Editor navbar, click Insert Other Options > Insert Practice.
Click True or False.
Add a Title, Short Description, and Instructions.Note: The Short Description field is visible only to Content Editors when editing the Content Topic.
In the Question Text field, add your statement.
In Answers, select if each part of the statement is true or false.Figure: An example of the false statement for the True or False practice.A preview of the practice appears to the right of the interface.
To view the practice as a user would see it, click Preview.
Click Insert once you have completed the practice.
Click the X button to close the Practice interface.
To edit the Practice, select the True or False practice and click Edit. You can also use this panel to delete or move the practice.
Edit a Practice 
In the Brightspace Editor, while editing a Content HTML page, select the practice you have added. 
Click Edit using the icon at the top of the element to open the editing interface. You can also move the object up or down to change the order or delete the object from this panel. 
Note: You can edit some aspects of the elements using the code editor; however, it is not possible to directly edit inserted elements outside the edit workflow in the WYSIWYG interface. You must launch the Insert Element edit workflow. 
Structure content with the Layouts tool
Use the Layouts tool to create panels that add structure and help organize your course content. Layouts can be used with any element a part of Insert Element.
Note: You must enable the Layouts tool in Org Tools. 
To add a Layout to an HTML Content page

Within any tool that uses Brightspace Editor, place your text cursor in the editor in the position you would like to place your layout.

Select Other Insert Options > Layouts.

Figure: Click the Layouts tool in the Other Insert Options menu.
In the Format Options section, select one of the following layout options:
Two Panels
Two Thirds / One Third Panels
One Third / Two Thirds Panels
Three Panels

Figure: Select a layout panel type in the Format Options section.
You can now begin creating content in your layout. Select a panel to begin adding content using tools from Brightspace Editor.
To modify a layout
In Brightspace Editor, select the layout to prompt the context menu.
From the context menu, you can move the layout position up or down within the page using the arrows.
Change the layout format by selecting another panel type.
Use Delete to delete the layout and all content within the layout.
Use Remove Layout to remove the layout panels, but keep the existing content.

Figure: Click your current layout panel to open the context menu.
You have changed the layout panel type.
Create accessible Hotspots with Hotspot Element
Hotspots provide a multilayer learning experience enriched with multimedia and interactive components that promote exploration, analysis, and evaluation. Learners can select and open active icons to learn more about the parts of an image. An invisible grid overlay allows the image to be fully accessible with the integration of micro alt tags.
To add hotspot markers to images
In Brightspace Editor, select Other Insert Options > Insert Element.

Figure: The Other Insert Options drop-down menu showing the Insert Element option.
In the Insert Element dialog, click Hotspot.

Figure: The Insert Element dialog showing the Hotspot option.
Choose to keep the default  Learner Instructions or add custom Learner Instructions.
Click Add Image and select an image from your personal device. Enter alt text in the Alternative Text field.
Click Save.

Figure: The Insert Element dialog showing the Learner Instructions field and the Add Image button.
Click anywhere on the image to place a hotspot marker. The interface to build content associated with the hotspot appears to the right of the image.
In the right panel, select a hotspot to edit or add content. Each hotspot is labeled in the order in which you placed the marker.
You can rename the hotspot. Hotspot names are used for editing and for screen reader users.
In the Hotspot Content field, use the full HTML editor to add a description or more information, additional images, videos, and links to additional resources.

Figure: Entering a name and text for a hotspot.
Click Hotspot Marker to change the icon and color of a hotspot marker.

Figure: Editing the style and color for a hotspot marker.
Select Hotspots to return to the hotspot selection option. Repeat steps 6-10 for all hotspots.
Note: You can insert up to nine hotspot markers for an image.
After adding all your hotspot markers, below Learner Instructions, click Accessibility.
Under the Accessibility heading, select one of the following:
Accessible hotspots only: Lets you add a micro alt tag for each hotspot to describe the part of the image associated with the hotspot. This is an ideal option when the position of the hotspot within the image or the contextual details of the image are not relevant to the learning.
Fully accessible image: Lets you split the image into a grid, allowing you to add a micro alt tag for each cell of the grid to describe all parts of the image. This is an ideal option when the position of the hotspot within the image or the contextual details of the image will inform the learning.
Add micro alt tags as required based on your Accessibility selection.

Figure: The Micro Alt Tags fields for all hotspot markers.
Click Save and Insert to add the Hotspot into the Content page.
Click Save and Close.
You have created a Hotspot Element.

Figure: How an image with hotspots appears in Content.
Video: Create content with the Hotspot Element



--------------------------------------------------


Create a presentation with Capture Web

Capture web enables you to capture full presentations from your browser without the need to download a desktop client. This includes both screen capture and mixed camera-and-screen presentations.
To create a presentation with Capture Web
Navigate to Media Library.
Select Create Recording.

Figure: Click Create Recording in Media Library to start your recording.
Capture Web prompts you to enable access to your camera and microphone. Click Allow.

Figure: Set up your camera and audio imports before you Start Recording.
Click Change Inputs to change your camera input, your audio input, and to test your audio.
Click Done.

Figure: Change Inputs allows you to select your preferred audio and camera imports. Click Test Audio to confirm functionality.
Turn your camera on or off by clicking the Camera toggle.

Figure: Click the Camera toggle to turn your camera on and off.
Click Share Screen and select a tab in your browser, a window, or your entire screen to display during your recording. Then, click Share.

Figure: The Share Screen dialog allows you to share your screen by selecting the Entire Screen tab.
Click Start Recording to begin your presentation.
Click Pause Recording to pause the recording of your presentation. Click Resume Recording to continue recording.
Click Finish Recording to stop your presentation.
Add a title for your presentation.
Click Caption Settings and select Generate Captions to add subtitles to your video. In the Language drop-down, select the language in which you recorded your presentation.
Click Done.

Figure: Set your Caption Settings and click Done.
Click Save and Close.
You have created a presentation with Capture Web.



--------------------------------------------------


Create a presentation with the Capture App

Brightspace Creator+ subscribers can create a presentation by launching the Capture App from the Media Library tool.  In Media Library, you can edit and add the presentations into any Brightspace course - no external tools needed. 
Note: Media Library is available to all Brightspace Core users; however only Creator+ subscribers  see the Create Presentation option as an option under Add in their Media Library. For more information about Media Library, refer to About Media Library. 
Legacy Capture clients cannot have both Capture App (v10) and Legacy Capture (version 9.x) running at the same time in their Production environments. If you are a Creator+ subscriber, and do not see Capture App permissions or options in Media Library, your site may be configured for Legacy capture. Please contact D2L Support if you are ready to migrate. 
Recommendations and prerequisites
Before you start a recording: 
Select your preferred hardware setup. In the Media Library, click Options  (...) to select your preference for HD or SD recording  (to a maximum of 720p) .If you are a Mac user, ensure that you have set your Security and Privacy settings to allow the Capture App to access your camera, microphone, and screen recording.
Do not use the Capture App with additional webcam or screen recording applications are open or concurrently running. 
Legacy Capture clients cannot have both Capture 10 and Legacy Capture (version 9.x) running at the same time in their production environments.
Note: For hardware issues, contact your organization's IT team for assistance. D2L support is not able to assist with hardware compatibility issues.
Create a presentation with Capture App
Create Presentation provides a simple way to capture your screen and webcam for quick demonstrations and presentations and then add them to Media Library.
To create a presentation
From your organizational homepage navbar, click  Media Library.
Click Add and select Create Presentation.
Click Launch.
Click Record. Figure: Launch the Capture Encoder dialog and click Record.
Add a title and description for your recording.
To choose a layout, do one of the following:Select Camera and Screen to create a video using the combination of webcam and desktop feed. This option enables you to switch the view between both feeds. In this layout, the recording captures the feed where your mouse is focused. Select Camera to create a video using the feed from your webcam.Select Screen to create a video using the feed from your desktop. In this layout, click outside the Capture App to minimize it and perform your screen recording. If you have more than one screen display, you are prompted to select the screen you want to use. 
Click Continue.
Click Start. The Capture App minimizes to your computer tool bar and starts recording. 
When you are finished, maximize the Capture App and click Stop.Note: You can edit capture video timelines in Media Library to add polish and improve flow.
Do one of the following (optional):Click Restart to delete the previously-recorded content and start again.Click Choose Display to select a different display option.Click Watch to preview your presentation.
When you are satisfied with your recording, click Finish. 
Click Publish. A pop-up appears to display uploading progress. When the upload is complete, your video is processed by D2L's servers and then appears in your Media Library.
Select Keep video on this device if you want to keep the video on your computer, or else it is deleted.
Click OK. 
When the upload to the Media Library is complete, click Keep video on this device, if appropriate.
Click OK. 
The new presentation video appears at the top of your Media Library content list. 
Video: Create Presentations with Capture App
Cut segments in Advanced Editor
Use the Timeline Editor to remove unwanted segments in your video.
To cut out sections with the Timeline Editor
From your organizational homepage, navigate to Media Library.
In Media Library, click the drop-down menu (...) beside a video and select Edit.

Figure: The Edit option for a video drop-down menu.
 In the advanced editor, click the Mark tool icon (|) to mark places on the timeline at the starting point and ending point of the part you wish to remove. To remove a mark on the timeline, click it again with the Mark tool.Figure: Click the Mark tool icon (|) and then click on the timeline to add a mark at that point.
Click the Scissors tool icon and click between the two marks to cut it out. To restore the cut section, click a second time between the two marks.Figure: The selected section turns red, signifying it is cut from the timeline.Note: To resize the timeline for accessibility, hover your mouse over the timeline and click and drag the small tab at the bottom of the timeline up or down.
When you are done editing, do one of the following:Click Save Draft to keep your changes but not publish the file.Click Finish to save your changes and publish a new version of the file.Figure: Choose either to Save Draft or Finish editing your video.
Add video chapters with the Advanced Editor
Edit and add chapters to your video to create time stamps for different content.
To edit chapters with the Advanced Editor
From your organizational homepage, navigate to Media Library.
In Media Library, click the drop-down menu (...) beside a video and selectEdit.Figure: Select Edit from the drop-down menu.
In the advanced editor, click the Table of Contents tab on the right side of the video.Figure: Click the Table of Contents tab.
Use the Seek tool to select a space on the timeline where you want your chapter to start.Figure: Click the Seek tool icon.
Enter your chapter title and click the Plus (+) icon.Figure: Enter a title and click the Plus (+) icon.
For the next chapter, select the next position on the timeline, enter the chapter title, and click the Plus (+) icon.Figure: An example of a Table of Contents with multiple time stamps and chapters.Note: If you add an incorrect time, you can update it by selecting a spot on the timeline and clicking the clock beside that chapter in the Table of Contents. Click X to remove the entry.
When you are done editing, do one of the following:Click Save Draft to keep your changes but not publish the file.Click Finish to save your changes and publish a new version of the file.Figure: Choose either to Save Draft or Finish editing your video.
Edit and create closed captions with the Advanced Editor
Adding closed captions to your videos makes your content accessible for all your students.
To edit and create closed captions with the advanced editor
From your organizational homepage, navigate to Media Library.
In Media Library, click the drop-down menu (...) beside a video and click Edit.Figure: Select Edit from the drop-down menu.
In the advanced editor, click the Closed Captions tab to the right side of your video.Figure: Click the Closed Captions tab.
There are multiple ways to generate captions for your videos. Do one of the following:Click Auto-Generate to automatically create captions for your video.Click Upload to upload an existing file from your device that captions your video.Manually create the closed captions and time stamps for your video.
To manually create closed captions, click the New captions text... field and write your captions. Then, click the Plus (+) icon to add it.Figure: Enter caption text.
To enter the time stamps for when the captions start and end, click the drop-down arrow for your captions.Figure: Entering time stamps for a closed caption.
Repeat steps 5-6 to enter the rest of your closed captions.
When you are done editing, do one of the following:Click Save Draft to keep your changes but not publish the file.Click Finish to save your changes and publish a new version of the file.Figure: Choose either to Save Draft or Finish editing your video.
Publish a previously-created presentation
You can  use the Capture App to publish a presentation that you have recorded externally from Brightspace.
To publish a previously-created presentation
In the Capture App, click Publish.
In the Presentation field, use the drop-down list to select the presentation you want to publish to Brightspace.
Click Publish. A popup appears to display uploading progress. When the upload is complete, your video is processed by D2L's servers and then appears in your Media Library.
Select Keep video on this device if you want to keep the video on your computer, or else it is deleted.
Click OK. 
Add a published Capture presentation to your course
If you have used the Capture App to create a presentation, is it automatically saved in Media Library. You can use Media Library to add that presentation to your course content using the Content tool.
To add a published presentation to your course
In the Content tool, select Add Existing > Media Library.
Select a video or presentation.




--------------------------------------------------


Create and delete a link or link category

Create a link
On the navbar, click  Course Admin.
Click  Links.
On the Manage Links page, click New Link.

Figure: The New Link option on the Manage Links page.
Do one of the following:To add your link to an existing category, from the Category drop-down list, select a category.To add your link to a new category, click New Category. Enter your category details. Click Save.
Enter a title for your link.
Do one of the following:To add an external link, in the URL area, enter the URL in the field provided.To add a quicklink, in the URL area, click the  Quicklink icon. In the Insert Quicklink dialog, navigate to the link you want to insert.
Click Save.
Create a link category
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click Links.
On the Manage Links page, click New Category.

Figure: The New Category option on the Manage Links page.
Enter your category details.
Click Save.
Delete links and link categories
Deleting a category also deletes all the links in that category.
On the navbar, click Course Admin.
Click  Links.
From the Actions menu of the link or link category you want to delete, click Delete.

Figure: The Actions menu showing the Delete option for a link.



--------------------------------------------------


Fix broken links in Content

Links in Content may be broken if users receive a "Not Authorized" error message when attempting to access a resource/tool by clicking on the quicklink.
Note: If a user clicks a quicklink to a course activity that is outside the availability dates (not yet available or no longer available), the following error message appears: "Unavailable Quicklink. The <activity type> is not available". In this case, the quicklink is not broken. If you want users to gain access to the activity, then you must change the availability dates for the activity. 
To fix broken links in Content
On your course home page, click Content.
Click on the module or sub-module that contains the topic with the broken link.
Do one of the following:If the topic is a direct quicklink, from the context menu of the quicklink, click Edit Link, make your changes, and then click Update.If the body text of a topic contains a quicklink, from the context menu of the topic containing the broken link, click Edit HTML, highlight the affected link in the text box, click the Quicklink icon, and click on the tool (Quizzes, Discussions, etc.) you want to quicklink to, or select Url if the quicklink is a URL.




--------------------------------------------------


Add and Edit categories to manage assignments

Organize your assignments into categories to make it easier for students to navigate to the appropriate assignment. For example, you can create separate categories for course units, summative projects, bonus assignments, and individual submissions. Your new category will appear on the Assignments page only if there are assignments  associated with it.
Add or edit categories
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, click Edit Categories.

Figure: The Edit Categories option on the Assignments page.
Do any of the following:Click Add Category to create a new category.Click the name of an existing category to modify it. Hit Enter, or click outside of the current cell to save your changes.Adjust the Sort Order of existing categories.To delete a category, select the check box next to its name and click the delete icon.
Create categories while making an assignment
Navigate  to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, click New Assignment.

Figure: The New Assignment option on the Assignments page.
In the Submission & Completion accordion, from the Category drop-down list, click New Category.

Figure: The Category drop-down menu in the Submission & Completion accordion.
Enter a name for your category. 
Click Create.

Figure: The New Assignment Category dialog showing the Create option.



--------------------------------------------------


Create an assignment

Provide more efficient, timely, and meaningful grading and feedback. Create and edit assignments, see submission details, view submissions, associate assignments to rubrics and competencies, and return submissions with grades and feedback. On paper and observed in person assignment formats are also available.
The Create and Edit Assignments page has a fully immersive page layout. This layout is consistent with other areas of Brightspace including Assignments, Content, and Lessons, where you can upload and create a new assignment.
Access the new Assignment page
There are several different starting points to create assignments. 
To create an assignment in the Classic Content Experience
In Content, select the module where you want to create an assignment.
Click Upload/Create.
Click New Assignment.Figure: The New Assignment option on the Upload/Create menu.
Video: Create an assignment

To create an assignment from the New Content Experience
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.
In your desired module, click Create New.
On the What would you like to create? page, click Assignment.Figure: The Assignment option of the  What would you like to create? page.
Video: The New Assignments Creation Experience
 
To create an assignment from the Assignments tool
Navigate to Assignments.
Click New Assignment.
Fill in assignment details
When creating a new assignment, start by entering basic details such as name, grade scheme, due date, and description.
To fill in assignment details
From the New Assignment page, enter a Name for the assignment.Figure: The New Assignment page.
For Grade Out Of, enter the number of points for the assignment.
Select whether the assignment will be in the Grade Book by clicking the drop-down menu.Edit or Link to Existing: Choose to either create and link to a new grade item, or link to an existing grade item.Note: You can also create grade items and categories from the Grades tool. Refer to Create and delete grade categories and items for more information.Add to Grade Book
Enter the Due Date for your assignment.
Enter a Description for your assignment.Note: You can click the icons to upload any files, link to any existing activities or external weblinks, attach any files from Google Drive or OneDrive, and record and/or upload any audio or video files.
If you do not wish to configure your assignment further, toggle the assignment to Visible and click Save and Close.
The new assignment is created and available to students.
Set a start and end date for your assignment
You can further customize your assignment by setting availability dates.
To set a start date and end date
From the New Assignment page, expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.Figure: Expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion to view start and end dates.
Set a Start Date and an End Date.
Click the assignment availability field below the start and end date. In the dialog, choose from the following for each date:Visible with access restrictedVisible with submission restrictedHidden
In the dialog, choose to select Add availability dates to Calendar if you want the start or end date available in your course calendar.

Figure: Select your assignment's availability and add it to your course calendar.
The new assignment is created with specified start and end dates.
Note: You can also click the link below the start and end date fields to change the default settings for availability dates. When you collapse Availability Dates & Conditions, the summary text displays the selected start and end date information. The default time for an assignment start date is set to 12:00 AM. The default end date time is set to 11:59 PM.
Create a new release condition for your assignment
You can add release conditions to your assignment. Release conditions are conditions that must be met for an assignment to be made visible to students. For example, you can set your assignment to only be available to students when they achieve a specified score on a quiz.
To create a new release condition
From the New Assignment page, under Release Conditions, click Add Release Condition and select Create New.Figure: The Create a Release Condition page.
Under Condition Type, select the condition that must be met.
Under Assignment Submission Folder, select the assignment submission folder in which this condition must be met.
Click Create.
If you do not wish to configure your assignment further, toggle the assignment to Visible and click Save and Close.
A new release condition is added to your assignment.
Attach an existing release condition to your assignment
You can also attach an existing release condition to your assignment.
To attach an existing release condition
From the New Assignment page, under Release Conditions, click Add Release Condition and select Add Existing.Figure: The Attach an Existing Condition page.
Select an existing release condition from the list and click Attach.Note: Use the View Conditions for drop-down menu to filter the existing release conditions.
If you do not wish to configure your assignment further, toggle the assignment to Visible and click Save and Close.
An existing release condition is added to your assignment.
Make your assignment only available to a select group
You can Manage Special Access for your assignment. This enables you to make your assignments available only to a select group of users or to add individualized due dates for certain users.
To make your assignment available to a select group
From the New Assignment page, expand Availability Dates & Conditions and click Manage Special Access.Figure: The Manage Special Access page.
Select one of the following options:Allow users with special access to submit outside the normal availability dates for this folder.Allow only users with special access to see this folder.
To add users, click Add Users to Special Access.
Specify the Due Date and the Availability start and end dates for selected users.
Select the checkbox alongside the users who you want to grant this special access to.
Click Save and then click Save and Close.
If you do not wish to configure your assignment further, toggle the assignment to Visible and click Save and Close.
Your assignment is configured to give special access to specific users or groups.
Customize Submission Type & Completion settings
You can also customize what type of assignment you are creating, and what file types you will accept from students submitting their assignments.
To customize submission type and completion settings
From the New Assignment page, expand Submission & Completion.Figure: The Submission & Completion settings of a new assignment.
Customize the following options:For the Assignment Type, specify if this is an Individual Assignment or Group Assignment.Note: You must have groups set up in your course to set an assignment as a group assignment.From the Category drop-down menu, select an existing category to align your assignment to or click New category, enter a Name for your category, and click Create.Note: You can edit the name of an existing category from the Assignments page. On the Assignments page, click Edit Categories.Select a Submission Type:For File Submissions, set the number of Files Allowed Per Submission and the Submissions rules.For Text submissions, set the Submission rules.For On paper submissions, set Marked as completed to one of the available options: Manually by learners, Automatically on evaluation, or Automatically on due date.For Observed in person assignments, set Marked as completed to one of the available options: Manually by learners, Automatically on evaluation, or Automatically on due date.Note: When you collapse Submission & Completion, the summary text displays your selection.From the Allowable File Extensions drop-down menu, select an option to restrict file extensions on submissions for the assignment. To receive email notifications when an assignment is submitted, under Notification Email, enter an email address or multiple email addresses separated by a comma.Note: This field is only available when the assignment Submission Type is set to File submissions or Text submissions.
If you do not wish to configure your assignment further, toggle the assignment to Visible and click Save and Close.
The assignment type and acceptable file type for submission is set.
Customize Evaluation & Feedback settings
You also can add rubrics, associate learning objectives, display annotations, and enable integrations such as Turnitin.
To customize evaluation & feedback settings
From the New Assignment page, expand Evaluation & Feedback.Figure: The Evaluation & Feedback section of the New Assignment page.
Customize the following options:Click Add rubric and either create and attach a new rubric or add an existing one.Note: If you are attaching multiple rubrics, from the Default Scoring Rubric drop-down list select the rubric to be used by default when scoring.Associate a learning objective:Click Manage Learning Objectives.Click Associate Learning Objectives.Select the learning objective you want to add and then click Add Selected.If required, associate an assessment to the learning objective:On the context menu of the associated learning objective, select Add Assessment.Select an existing rubric or create a new rubric.Select the rubric criteria and specify if the assessment activity is required to complete the learning objective.Click Save.Click Close.To display annotation tools in the document viewer, under Annotation Tools, select the Make annotation tools available for assessment check box.To enable anonymous marking, under Anonymous Marking, select the Hide student names during assessment check box.Under Turnitin Integration, click Manage Turnitin.Enable the Turnitin integration and click Save.
To make your assignment visible to students, click on the Visibility toggle.Note: If this Visibility is not turned on when creating the assignment, the assignment is hidden from students by default.
Click Save and Close.
Note: Manage Learning Objectives only appears when the Competencies tool is enabled and the course is not using the Learning Outcomes tool. Speak to your administrator for more information.
Add a rubric to an assignment
On the Assignments page, click the Actions drop-down menu for the assignment where you want to add a rubric. Click Edit Assignment.

Figure: The Edit Assignment option in the Actions drop-down menu for an assignment.
In the Evaluation & Feedback menu, Click Add Rubric > Add Existing.

Figure: The Evaluation & Feedback menu with the Add Rubric drop-down option showing the Add Existing option.
In the Add Existing Rubric dialog, click the checkbox for the rubric you want to add.
Note: You can add more than one rubric to an assignment.
Click Add Selected.

Figure: The Add Existing Rubric dialog.
Preview an assignment submission
There are often situations where you would like to see the end-to-end flow of submitting an assignment you created. This can easily be accomplished by leveraging the Preview function within the Assignments tool. You can go through the process of viewing and submitting an assignment and have your preview submission available in the evaluation workflow.
Note: Your preview submissions will not impact the statistics for your course.
To preview an assignment submission
Navigate to Assignments.
Click More Actions > Preview.

Figure: Click the More Actions menu and click Preview.
Select the assignment you want to preview.
Select Allow this preview submission to be available in the folder.
Click Add a File to submit a test assignment.
Click Submit.

Figure: Add an assignment submission and select Allow this preview submission to be available in the folder.
On the Review Assignment Submission page, click Exit Preview.
If you want to view the evaluation workflow for your assignment submission, click on the assignment where you just made the submission.
Click Show Search Options.
In the Users tab in the Submissions section, select Users with preview submissions.

Figure: Select the Users with preview submissions option from the drop-down list.
Click Apply and find your assignment submission.
You now have access to the to the evaluation screen for your assignment submission.



--------------------------------------------------


Copy an existing assignment

You can quickly create new assignments from existing assignments using the Copy Assignment option. This feature copies all settings of an existing assignment except the associated grade item and Turnitin settings.
To copy an existing assignment
Navigate to Assignments.
Click the check box to select an assignment, and then click More Actions > Copy Assignment. Or click the drop-down menu beside the assignment you want to copy and select Copy Assignment.Figure: The Copy Assignment option.
The copied assignment opens in edit mode. You can change the following settings of the copied assignment:Update assignment Name.Figure: The Name field.Change the points in the Grade Out Of option.Figure: The Grade Out Of option.Click the drop-down menu to change the other Grade settings.Figure: The Grade settings.If you select the Edit or Link to Existing option, you can choose whether to create and link to a new grade item, or link to an existing grade item.Figure: The Edit or Link to Existing menu.Create and link to a new grade item:  Change the Choose Grade Category and Change Type & Scheme settings.Click the drop-down button to select a Grade Category.Figure: The Grade Category option.Choose a Grade Type and click the drop-down button to select a Grade Scheme.Figure: The Grade Type and Grade Scheme options.Link to an existing grade item: Click the drop-down button to choose an existing grade item.Figure: The grade items drop-down button.Not in Grade Book: Choose to not place the copied assignment in the Grade Book.Reset to Ungraded: The points in the Grade Out Of field are removed and replaced with the tag “Ungraded.”Select a Due Date for the assignment.Update the Instructions.Note: You can also use the other options for the copied assignment or change the other settings in the right panel.
After reviewing all the details, click Save and Close to go back to the Assignments page.
The existing assignment is copied and added as a new assignment to your course.



--------------------------------------------------


Copy assignments to other courses

Instructors who teach multiple courses can now copy assignments to other courses. To copy assignments, you must be enrolled in both the source and destination course with a role having the permission Assignments > Copy to Other Courses in order to copy from source to destination.
Note: The permission is turned Off for all roles by default.
What attributes can be copied
Instructors can copy assignments in two ways:
Using the Assignments tool to select an existing assignment.
Using the New Content Experience (Lessons) tool.
Each of these methods enables instructors to copy the following assignment attributes to the new destination:
Assignment folder and its properties, including instructions, assignment category, and visibility
Assignment properties including description and category
 Attachments like direct file attachments, uploaded from Google Workspace or OneDrive, and audio and video files
Grade item and grade category
Availability dates
Submission and completion information, including the Optional Grade item and the course scheme if used.
Rubric(s) associated with the assignment. When copying an assignment that uses a shared rubric, instead of linking a copied assignment to a shared rubric, the rubric is also copied. The copied assignment links to the copied rubric. If an assignment uses a rubric that is archived, the rubric is copied and retains its archived state in the destination course.
The following attributes are not copied:
Instruction Quicklinks and attachment resources created with the Attach link to existing activity action
Instruction images added using Insert Image that were saved to course files
Availability release conditions and special access settings
Submission and completion information, including group assignment designation
Evaluation and Feedback information including Turnitin associations, competency, and outcome associations
Content topic associations (for example, if the assignment is linked from content)
Note: In some cases, references to links and images that are not copied may result in broken links.
Copy an assignment to another course 
Do one of the following:On the navbar of the course containing the assignment you want to copy, click Assignments. In the Assignment list, click the Context menu beside the Assignment title and click Copy to Other Courses. Note: The Assignments > Copy to Other Courses workflow includes optional destination placement and visibility options. This allows instructors to quickly copy assignments to specific locations within the destination course and control assignment visibility.  Figure: The Copy to other Courses menu option opens the Copy Assignment dialog. From the list of assignments in New Content Experience (Lessons), click to expand the More Actions drop-down menu. Then, click Copy to Another Course.Figure: On the Lessons list, Copy to Another Course appears as an option on the More Options menu.
Click to select the rubrics and/or grade items if you want those items copied with the assignment.
In the Choose Destinations area, search by keyword or semester to find the destination courses for the assignment.Note: Only the course offerings for which a user has the Copy to Other Courses permission appear in the Choose Destinations list. Figure: The Copy Assignment dialog with course destinations.
Click to select the destination courses for the assignment. Note: By default, the maximum number of courses you can select is 10. 
Expand the Destination course to set the assignment location and visibility. Figure: The Module and Placement drop-down lists define the location of the assignment  in your destination course.
Click Next.
The progress page indicates the status of each destination course and any issues. If you navigate away from the progress page, a minibar notification in Brightspace indicates when the assignment has been copied to all the destination courses. You can click the notification to open the progress page to review the status and logged issues. 
The Copy feature is enabled based on the tool and method your institution is using:
Tool
Default State
Assignments > Copy to Other Courses
On
New Content Experience (Lessons)
On




--------------------------------------------------


Hide draft assignments and content

You can set the visibility state for draft content within assignments in Content and Assignments. When content is in a draft state, it is not visible to students in Brightspace. When teachers have set the visibility to draft, the hidden icon appears in the teacher view for the content.
In Content, when teachers add existing assignments as topics, the visibility state of the topic is pulled from the visibility state of the assignment. The visibility status of a topic reflects the visibility status of the assignment containing the topic.
When teachers create a new assignment, it defaults to the draft visibility state, in the same method as Quizzes and Surveys. When teachers update a visibility setting on an assignment in Assignments, it is automatically updated in the associated Content topic.
Hide draft assignments or content in the Content tool
Navigate to Content.
In the table of contents pane, click the assignment you want to hide.
Toggle the visibility state to Hidden.

Figure: Click the visibility toggle to change the visibility of your assignment or content to Hidden.
You have hidden your assignment or content topic.
Hide draft assignments in the Assignments tool
Navigate to Assignments.
Do one of the following: Click the Actions menu for the assignment you want to hide and click Hide from Users.Click the Actions menu for the assignment you want to hide and click Edit Assignment. Change the visibility state from Visible to Hidden. Click Save and Close.
You have hidden a draft assignment in the Assignments tool.
Exporting hidden or draft assignments and content
The export process includes the visibility state for the assignment content. The visibility state for the export comes from the assignment.
The import and Copy Course Component process for assignment and content topics uses the following logic for hiding content from students:
If the import file or source contains a visibility state on the assignment, use that state.
If the import file or source contains assignments with no state and no associated content topics, the visibility state is set to show the imported content.
If the import file or source contains both content topics and assignments, use the visibility state on the assignments. If no visibility state exists on the assignment, use the visibility state from the content.
If multiple content topics with the same visibility state point to an assignment without a visibility state, set the assignment  to the same state as the topics.
If multiple content topics with different visibility states point to an assignment  without a visibility state, set the assignment  to draft and change all the topics to draft.
Note: On paper submissions and Observed in person assignments cannot be added to Content.



--------------------------------------------------


Set release conditions and special access in Assignments

Set release conditions for an assignment
Release conditions allow you to associate an assignment  with other items in Brightspace. For example, you can require that users meet some criteria, such as reading a set of lecture notes in Content, before they can submit their work to an assignment. You can also make submission to the assignment  a criterion for accessing another item, such as a quiz.
To set release conditions for an assignment
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, from the Actions menu of the assignment you want to set release conditions for, click Edit Assignment.

Figure: The Actions menu for an assignment showing the Edit Assignment option.
Click and expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.

Figure: The Availability Dates & Conditions accordion not expanded.
From the Add Release Condition drop-down menu, do one of the following:Click Create New. Select the Condition Type, select the Condition Details, and click Create.Click Add Existing. From the View Conditions for drop-down list, select the tool in which you want to view existing release conditions, select the release condition you want to attach, and click Attach.

Figure: The Add Release Condition drop-down menu.
Toggle the Visibility ON or OFF.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: The Save and Close option and the Visibility toggle.
Your new release condition is set for your assignment.
Add special access to an assignment
Special access permissions allow you to set different availability dates and times for specific users. For example, you could extend the deadline for users who require remedial help or who are submitting work beyond the original scope of the assignment. You can also add special access after an assignment’s end date has passed for users who have a legitimate excuse for missing the deadline or for users you want to submit additional material, such as planning notes or a bibliography. The  special access icon  displays on the Assignment list page beside any assignment that includes special access settings.
To add special access to an assignment
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, from the Actions menu of the assignment you want to set release conditions for, click Edit Assignment.

Figure: The Actions menu for an assignment showing the Edit Assignment option.
Expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.

Figure: The Availability Dates & Conditions accordion not expanded.
Click Manage Special Access.

Figure: The Manage Special Access option.
In the Manage Special Access dialog, select one of the following options:Allow users with special access to submit outside the normal availability dates for this folder Allow only users with special access to see this folder
Click Add Users to Special Access.

Figure: The Manage Special Access dialog.
To give learners that have special access a different assignment due date, select the Has Due Date check box and set the due date for the assignment.
Under Availability, select the Has Start Date and Has End Date check boxes and set the date availability for when you want users to have special access to the assignment.
In the Users area, select the users you want to give special access to.

Figure: The Properties and Users sections in the Special Access dialog.
Click Save in the dialog. The special access icon, the number of users with special access, and the condition appear under Special Access.
Toggle the Visibility ON or OFF.
Click Save and Close. 

Figure: The Save and Close option and the Visibility toggle.
You set special access for your assignment.
Add special access dates to an assignment from the Submissions page
You can change the due date and availability for a submitted assignment to give a student more time to complete their assessment.
To add special access dates to an assignment from the Submissions page
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, under the name of the student you want to set special access for, click an assignment to evaluate.
On the right evaluation pane, click the Evaluation Options (...) drop-down menu. 
Click Special Access Dates.

Figure: The Evaluation Options drop-down menu showing the Special Access Dates option.
Set the Due Date and Availability.
Click Save. 

Figure: The Special Access dialog for an assignment submission.
Click Back to Submissions.
Special Access Dates inherit date properties as follows:
When the parent assignment has an availability date set, its Date property is inherited by the corresponding special access date. For example, if the assignment is hidden before a start date, then the special access start date is also treated as hidden.
	When the parent assignment does not have an availability date, the special access date inherits its Date property from the course default. For example, if the assignment does not have an end date, then a special access end date is set for a learner. This also occurs if the course default for assignment end dates is submission-restricted, making the special access end date be treated as submission-restricted.
Video: Add Restrictions to an Assignment




--------------------------------------------------


Reorder, edit, and delete assignments and categories

If you delete a category that contains assignments, the assignments will appear in the No Category section of the Assignment list.
Reorder assignments and categories
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, click More Actions > Reorder.

Figure: The More Actions menu showing the Reorder option.
In the Sort Order column, change the order in which your categories and assignments will display

Figure: The Sort Order column on the Reorder page.
Click Save.
You have reordered your assignments and categories.
Edit assignments and categories
Navigate to Assignments.
To edit a category, click its Edit icon, make your changes, and click Save.

Figure: The Edit icon for assignment categories.
To edit an assignment, click the Actions drop-down menu and click Edit Assignment. Make your changes and click Save and Close.

Figure: The Actions drop-down menu showing the Edit Assignment option.
You have edited an assignment or category.
Delete assignments and categories
Navigate to Assignments.
To delete a category, click its Delete icon and then click Delete.

Figure: The Delete icon.
To delete an assignment, click its Actions drop-down menu and click Delete Assignment. Then, click Delete.

Figure: The Actions drop-down menu showing the Delete Assignment option.
You have deleted an assignment or category.
Restore deleted assignments
If your assignment has availability dates associated with it, when you restore the assignment, you also restore its dates in the Calendar tool.
Note: Restoring a deleted assignment requires the See and Manage Assignment Submission Folders and the Add/Edit Assignment Submission Folders permissions. You may need to contact your administrator to get these permissions granted to your role.
To restore a deleted assignment
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, from the More Actions button, click  Event Log.

Figure: The More Actions menu showing the Event Log option.
For every assignment you want to restore, click Restore.

Figure: The Restore option for an assignment.
You have restored a deleted assignment.



--------------------------------------------------


Align learning outcomes to assignments

Learning Outcomes are not compatible with Competencies and Learning Objectives. When Learning Outcomes are associated with a course, the ability to use Learning Objectives in Assignments is not available.
To align learning outcomes to assignments
Navigate to Assignments.
From the Actions menu of the assignment that you want to align outcomes to, select Edit Assignment.

Figure: The Actions menu showing the Edit Assignment option.
On the Edit Assignment page, click Standards.

Figure: The Standards option on the Edit Assignment page.
In the Browse Standards dialog, select the outcomes you want to align with the assignment and click Save.

Figure: The Browse Standards dialog.
If you want to align more learning outcomes, click the Browse Standards icon (+).

Figure: The Browse Standards icon.
If you want to remove one aligned outcome, click the X next to the outcome name.
If you want to remove all aligned outcomes, click Clear All.
Click Clear to confirm that you want to clear the alignments. 
Click Save and Close.
Figure: The create and edit Assignments page with selected outcomes.
You have aligned standards to your assignment.



--------------------------------------------------


Preview assignments in Evaluation mode

To edit assignments, a user specifically requires edit permissions. However, there are some instances when evaluators without those edit permissions need to be able to view assignment information, such as assignment instructions, start dates, and end dates. 
To preview assignments in Evaluation mode
In Evaluation mode, click the assignment Actions menu and click Preview Activity. Evaluators with the Can See and Manage Assignments permission can use the Preview Activity option to view the assignment information, but cannot edit the assignment properties or dates. 

Figure: Click the assignment Actions menu and then click Preview Activity.
When you select the Preview Activity option, a read-only version of the Assignment Preview appears in a new tab.

Figure: The Assignment Preview enables users to view the assignment information, but they cannot edit it.
Note: If your evaluator role requires the ability to edit assignments, you need the additional following permissions:
Add/Edit Assignment Submission Folders
Either  Edit Evaluation Properties or Manage Delivery




--------------------------------------------------


About anonymous marking

To avoid unconscious bias in the grading and feedback process, instructors can configure assignments to use anonymous learner names. When the feature is turned on, instructors only see an anonymized learner name on the assignment. Learners can be assured that their submissions are assessed fairly. The d2l.Tools.System.Features.AnonymousMarking configuration variable must be turned by an administrator in order to enable anonymous marking. Anonymous marking is fully supported in the New Assignment Evaluation Experience. 
Instructors can only publish anonymous marking using Publish All Feedback, to prevent identifying learners through selective anonymous marking feedback submission. Note that the Publish button is disabled on the submission page. Once you publish any feedback, assignments are no longer anonymous. 
The Assignments > Publish All Feedback on Assignments permission must be enabled by an administrator for the Publish All Feedback button to appear. The Publish All Feedback button is enabled when at least one feedback is saved as a draft.
Instructors can set up anonymous marking when creating an assignment. Instructors can also enable anonymous marking for assignment submission folders after they are created, but cannot disable the feature once submissions have been made. Instructors that use Turnitin can only enable Anonymous Marking in an existing assignment submission folder if no assignment submissions have been made.
Depending on your course configuration, instructors may see anonymous marking automatically applied by default to new assignments. This default setting may or may not be disabled by the instructor.
Instructors can publish feedback without completing feedback for all submissions. Clicking Publish All Feedback displays a confirmation dialog box indicating that some submissions will be published without feedback.
After Publish All Feedback is selected, the user names associated with anonymous submissions are revealed to instructors.
In instances where instructors are required to identify a user, such as when a learner is flagged for academic infringement, a permission exists which identifies all anonymous users in an assignment submission folder with anonymous marking enabled – contact your administrator for more information or next steps.
Enable/Disable Anonymous Marking
Anonymous marking can be enabled or disabled when creating a new assignment submission folder. Anonymous marking can be enabled on an assignment submission folder with submissions, but cannot be disabled once assignment submissions are made. Courses that use Turnitin can only enable anonymous marking for assignment submission folders before any assignment submissions are made. The d2l.Tools.System.Features.AnonymousMarking must be enabled by an administrator in order to user anonymous marking.
To enable or disable anonymous marking
Navigate to Assignments.
Click New Assignment.

Figure: The New Assignment option on the Assignments page.
Complete all required fields.
In the Evaluation & Feedback accordion, under Anonymous Marking, select or deselect Hide student names during assessment.

Figure: The Hide student names during assessment checkbox in the Evaluation & Feedback accordion.
Click Save and Close.
Video: Create an Anonymous Assignment




--------------------------------------------------


Set availability and due dates for an assignment

You  can set availability and due dates for an assignment and schedule their visibility. It helps to prevent late submissions and allow  view assignment information and submissions after it ends.
To set assignment availability and due dates
Navigate to Assignments.
On the Assignments page, from the context menu of the assignment you want to set availability and due dates for, click  Edit Assignment.
In the Due Date field, select the required date and time.Figure: The Edit assignment page with the Due Date field highlighted.
Expand Availability Dates & Conditions.Note: To use the availability date settings, the d2l.Tools.Dropbox.ConsistentDatesEnabled configuration variable must be set to ON. If you do not see the options described below, ask your administrator. In the Start Date  field, select the required date and time. Click the Visible with access restricted link  below to change the default settings for availability dates if needed. You can also add availability dates to Calendar.Figure: The Start date link to change the default settings for availability dates highlighted.You can choose one of the following availability dates settings: Visible with access-restricted (before start / after end). The assignment will be visible to learners before the Start Date or after the End Date, but they cannot click or open it. Learners can see the name, dates, and restrictions but cannot see the assignment description or attachments.Visible with submission-restricted (before start / after end). The assignment will be visible to learners before the Start Date or after the End Date, and they can click or open it, but they cannot submit or mark it as complete. Learners can see all details about the assignment, including description, attachments, and rubrics, but they cannot upload files, enter comments, or mark the assignment as complete (for observed in person / on paper submission).Hidden (before start / after end). The assignment is hidden to learners until the start date is reached or after the end date passes. Learners can not see the assignment anywhere, including corresponding Calendar events and Notifications.Figure: The Availability Dates settings.Note: The default settings are available on the Availability Date Defaults page, which can be found under Course Admin. In the End Date  field, select the required date and time. Click the Visible with access restricted link below to change the default settings for availability dates if needed. You can also add availability dates to Calendar.Figure: The Start Date and End Date  fields highlighted.
Click Save and Close.
The Assignment List page contains all activity dates and date settings. The hover tooltip includes the information about start and end dates with settings to explain how the assignment appears to learners before and after these dates.
Figure: The Assignment page with activity dates and date settings.



--------------------------------------------------


Restricted File Extensions

To use the Restricted File Extensions feature, the d2l.Tools.Dropbox.RestrictFileExtensions configuration variable must be  ON. When the configuration variable is enabled, in the Submission and Completion accordion of the New Assignment Creation Experience, you can see options to restrict file extensions on submissions for the assignment.
The Allowable Filetypes field provides options for the types of files that students can submit for the assignment. Options in the drop-down menu include: 
Annotatable files, which include all file types that are supported by the Annotation tool in Assignments.
.PDF only
Files that can be previewed without any conversion, such as .HTM, .HTML, .MHT, .MHTML, and .BMP
Images and videos
Custom filetypes
If you select Custom File Extensions, you can then enter file extensions that are allowed for file submissions.

Figure: Click the Custom filetypes field to customize allowable assignment file submissions.
When file type restrictions are used on an assignment, the list of allowable file types are listed in the Submit Assignment section.

Figure: The Submit Assignment section shows students the allowable file types for their assignment submission.
When a student attempts to upload a file submission for an assignment of a file extension type that the you restricted, an error message appears.

Figure: An alert message appears when a restricted file type is attempting to upload.



--------------------------------------------------


Assignments and Turnitin

Turnitin is a cloud-based solution with capabilities in Similarity checking and online grading using their Similarity Report and Online Grading tools. Turnitin saves instructors time and facilitates personalized feedback for learners. 
Similarity Report lets you monitor Assignment submissions and identify potential cases of plagiarism by automatically comparing submissions to an online database of original content. You can then view Similarity Reports which highlight key areas, show a breakdown of matching sources, and provide direct links to the matching content.
You can also take advantage of the integrated Online Grading which lets you add comments, inline text, and highlight sections in file submissions, directly from the Assignments tool. Learners can view Online Grading feedback in User Progress under Assignments, in Grades, in Assignments, in User Progress under Grades, and in Content.
Similarity Report and Online Grading features are enabled through integration with Turnitin from iParadigms, LLC. For more information about these features, see Turnitin Integration on Brightspace IntegrationHub.
Note: The use of Turnitin combined with the special access features in the Assignments tool is not supported. If you set a due date for a user with special access that is different than the due date set on the Turnitin tab, the Turnitin due date does not change.
About Turnitin-enabled assignments
Consider the following when creating or editing your Turnitin-enabled assignment:
When creating a new assignment, the name of the folder in Turnitin truncates after 99 characters, even though the Name field accepts 128 characters.
When you copy course components from one course to another, confirm that all settings are configured for the Turnitin-enabled assignments in the new course.
If you want students to see instructions on the Submit Files page, you must enter them into the Instructions rich text field in the Properties tab. These instructions are automatically transferred into Turnitin. Any instructions you enter in the Properties tab overwrite instructions entered into Turnitin.
If Online Grading is activated for your org unit, in the Turnitin tab, the Online Grading Available to Learners date defaults to the current date and time, plus 7 days. In the Restrictions tab, if you select Has End Date, the Online Grading Available to Learners date automatically sets to the end date, plus 1 day. You can change either of these dates if needed.
If you want to automatically transfer scores as draft to Brightspace, on the Turnitin Integration page, select the Automatically sync grades as Draft in Brightspace radio button or select the Manually sync grades as Draft in Brightspace radio button to make it a manual step.
If you want students to see the Similarity Score link to Turnitin:Your administrator must map their role to the Learner IMS role.In the Properties tab, ensure Allow learners to see Turnitin similarity scores in their assignment submissions folder is selected. This option is selected by default.In Turnitin, under Optional Settings, ensure Allow learners to view Similarity Reports? is set to Yes. This option is set to Yes by default.
In the Properties tab, if you select Allow learners to see Turnitin similarity scores in their assignment, the equivalent option in Turnitin called Allow learners to view Similarity Reports? is automatically set to Yes.
In Turnitin, under Optional Settings, Allow late submissions? defaults to Yes. This means you don't need to change end dates to allow students to submit late assignments.
Enable Turnitin for an assignment
In order to enable Turnitin for an assignment, make sure your administrator has done the following first: 
Activated Turnitin Similarity Report for your org unit by configuring the variables in d2l.3rdParty.Turnitin.LTI in Config Variable Browser
Mapped the IMS roles for users in IMS Configuration.
To enable Turnitin for an assignment
On the navbar, click Assignments.
Do one of the following:Click New Assignment , and enter the name, grade, date, and instruction information for your assignment.Click Edit Assignment and select the assignment to which you want to add Turnitin functionality.
Click to expand the Submissions and Completion tab.
Under Allowable File extensions, select Compatible with Turnitin. For more information, refer to What file types are supported in Similarity Report?Note: If you are using Online Grading only, the Compatible with Turnitin option is not required. 
Click to expand the Evaluation & Feedback tab.
Click Manage Turnitin.
Click Enable Similarity Report for this folder.
Click Enable Online Grading for this folder if you want to use the Turnitin suite of feedback and grading tools. Note: this is an add-on feature that must be purchased from Turnitin.
Click More Options for a list of additional optional settings.
Do any of the following:In the Submission settings area, indicate where and when assignments can be submitted. For more information, refer toTurnitin assignment settings. In the Compare against area, indicate the sources against which you want to compare the submissions, including previously submitted student papers, current and archived web site content, and periodicals, journals, and publications.In the Similarity Report area, indicate the timing of generating similarity reports, and the type of submission content you want to exclude (such as bibliography, quoted materials, and small sources).In the Exclude assignment template area, you can upload or create a template of text that is automatically excluded from the similarity report.In the Additional settings area, you can indicate if you want to save the settings you have chosen in the More Options dialog for future use.
Click Submit.
Click Save. 
About submission types
Four submission types are available to teachers when creating assignments to allow evaluation of many different tasks.
File submission: students upload and submit a file to the assignment.
Text submission: students post text, image, or a link to their work in a text box within the assignment.
On paper submission: students submit a physical copy of their assignment directly to their teacher. No file upload is required to complete the assignment.
Observed in person:  allows teachers to observe students as they perform tasks, such as in-class presentations, and evaluate them using Assignments. No file upload is required to complete the assignment.
On paper submissions and Observed in person assignments include additional completion options as no submissions are made by students in Brightspace. These submission types can be marked as completed manually by students, automatically on evaluation, or automatically on due date. Teachers select their completion option when creating assignments.
About Turnitin-enabled group assignments
Consider the following when creating or editing your Turnitin-enabled group assignment:
In Turnitin, under Optional Settings, Allow late submissions? defaults to Yes. This means you don't need to change end dates to allow students to submit late assignments.
Exempt individual users from Turnitin
To exempt individual users from Turnitin, your administrator must enable Turnitin for the Assignments tool for your organization or your course. Turnitin exemptions apply to all assignments within a course.
On the Assignments page, from the More Actions context menu, select Manage Preference for Turnitin®.
The Manage Preference for Turnitin® page displays where you can select individual users to be exempt from Turnitin using the toggles. An X on the toggle means that the student's submissions are exempted from Turnitin. A checkmark on the toggle means that the student's submissions will be checked by Turnitin.
Understanding date restrictions
Quiz restrictions allow teachers to set start dates, due dates, and end dates on their quizzes. The start date determines when a quiz becomes available to students. The end date determines when a quiz becomes unavailable to students. The due date specifies a time when a quiz is expected to be completed. A quiz is considered late if it is submitted after the due date is reached. If a quiz has an enforced time limit and the student uses more than the allotted time, the quiz is marked as exceeded time limit.
In some cases, the terminology used in Turnitin is not the same as what is used in Brightspace. This list  ensures that the date definitions are clearly mapped to mitigate any misunderstandings.
Start Date:
In Brightspace, the Start Date indicates the day when students can begin submitting their work. If it is not set, the course start date or current date and time is used. 
In Turnitin, the Start Date indicates the day when students can begin submitting their work.
Due Date:
In Brightspace, the Due Date indicate the day when an assignment is officially due. If it is not set, the course end date or current date plus 6 months is used. 
In Turnitin, the Due Date indicates also indicated when an assignment is officially due. The Due Date in Turnitin enables automated collusion checking used for the Generate reports on the due date option. The Due Date setting supports the Allow late submissions option. 
End Date: 
In Brightspace, the End date indicates the end of a course when assignment submissions are no longer allowed. 
Turnitin honors the End Date provided by Brightspace.
Grade Visibility Date:
In Brightspace, the Grade Visibility Date indicates the date when scores and feedback are available in Grade book. If it is not set, the Due Date plus 6 months is used. 
In Turnitin, the Grade Visibility Date also indicates the date when scores and feedback are available to students. 
Video: How to assess a Turnitin-enabled assignment 

 Video: Assess an Assignment with Turnitin 

Publishing Turnitin Online Grading feedback
Note: Turnitin Online Grading feedback is only available to users who have purchased the Turnitin suite of feedback and grading tools.
In the course where you want to grade the Turnitin-enabled assignment, on the navbar, click Assignments.
From the list of assignments, click the assignment for which you want to publish your Turnitin Online Grading feedback. The list of submissions will have an instructor feedback indicator to the learners to whom you provided feedback. Figure; The instructor feedback indicator shows which assignment have feedback attached using Turnitin.
Do one of the following:Use the checkbox beside individual learners to indicate you want to publish feedbackUse the checkbox at the top of the column to indicate you want to publish feedback to all.Figure; Use the checkmarks to select the learners for which you want to publish feedback
Click Publish Feedback to publish scores and feedback within Turnitin Online Grading for the selected students.Figure: The Publish Feedback link.
Viewing Turnitin Similarity Reports
You can view Similarity Reports from the Submissions page. When a report is available, the status changes from In-Progress to a percentage rating, which indicates the level of matching content.

Figure: The Similarity Report for an assignment.
A lower percentage rating indicates that the content is likely original and has not been copied; a higher percentage rating indicates the content is likely not original and has been copied from another source.
The percentage ranges are associated with colors:
Blue >= 0 and < 20%
Green >= 20 and < 40%
Yellow >= 40 and < 60%
Orange >= 60 and < 80%
Red >= 80 and <= 100%
Click the colored section beside the percentage rating to view the associated Similarity Report. The Similarity Report is comprised of two panes. The right pane lists all of the matching sources, including the percentage of text that matches and a link to the online content. The left pane displays the submission text using colored highlights to draw attention to the matching content.
What file types are supported in Similarity Report?
The following file types are compatible with Similarity Report:
Microsoft Word (DOC, DOCX)
Corel WordPerfect (WPD)
Adobe Acrobat PDF
HTML (HTM, HTML)
Rich text (RTF)
Plain text (TXT)
Hangul Word Processor (HWP)
PostScript (PS)
Microsoft Excel (XLS, XLSX)
Microsoft PowerPoint (PPTX, PPT, PPSX, PPS)
Troubleshooting: I see an assignment submission showing an icon that says, "An Similarity report could not be generated for this file".
If there are no other details in the icon's message text, such as the file is not a supported type or does not include enough text, the generic error indicates an issue transferring the file to the Turnitin server. For assistance with troubleshooting, contact D2L Support.



--------------------------------------------------


Create and configure a quiz

Build quizzes using varying question types. Create quizzes that randomly select questions from a question pool or that shuffle the order of questions.
The Create a quiz page has a fully immersive page layout. This layout is consistent with other areas of Brightspace including Quizzes, Content, and Lessons, where you can create and configure a Quiz.
Access the New Quiz page 
There are several different starting points to create quizzes. 
To create a new quiz in the Classic Content Experience
From your course navbar, click Content.
Select the module where you want to create a quiz and click Upload/Create.
Click New Quiz.Figure: The New Quiz option on the Upload/Create menu.
The New Quiz is page open, and you can customize your quiz.
Video: Create a Quiz using the Classic Content experience

To create a quiz in the New Experience
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.Figure: Course homepage with the Content tool highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, in your desired module, click Create New.Figure: Table of Contents displaying the Create New option in a course module.
On the What would you like to create? page, click Quiz.Figure: The What would you like to create? page with the Quiz option highlighted.
To create a quiz from the Quizzes tool
From your course navbar, click Quizzes.
Click New Quiz.
Copy an existing quiz
You can quickly create new quizzes from existing quizzes using the Copy functionality available on the individual quiz drop-down menu. This feature copies all settings of an existing quiz in addition to its Special Access settings and aligned Learning Objectives.
To copy an existing quiz
Navigate to Quizzes.
From the drop-down menu of the quiz you want to copy, click Copy. 

Figure: The Actions menu for a quiz showing the Copy option.
The copied quiz opens in edit mode. Update the name, score, due date, instructions, and other settings of the copied quiz .
Click Save. 
Fill in quiz details
Once you have opened the New Quiz page, you must start by entering basic details for your quiz.
To fill in quiz details
From the New Quiz page, enter a Name for the quiz.Figure: The New Quiz page.
For Grade Out Of, enter the number of points for the quiz.
Select whether the quiz will be in the Grade Book by clicking the dropdown menu.Edit or Link to Existing: Choose to either create and link to a new grade item, or link to an existing grade item.Note: You can also create grade items and categories from the Grades tool. Refer to Create and delete grade categories and items for more information.Add to Grade Book
Enter the Due Date for your quiz.
Enter a Description for your quiz.Note: The Description field has a character limit of 65,535 characters
Now you can add quiz questions to your quiz.
Create questions
Create a new quiz question
You can create and customize new quiz questions from the New Quiz page.
To create a new quiz question
On the Create Quiz page, click Create New > New Question.
Click the question type from the list and complete the question details.Figure: The Create New menu provides options for the type of available questions you can create.Note: Written response questions require you to manually grade responses.
Do one of the following:Click Save and New to create another quiz question.Click Save to return to the Create Quiz page.
New quiz questions are added to your quiz.
Add existing quiz questions
You can also add existing quiz questions by uploading a file, browsing the quiz library, or importing from another learning repository.
To add existing quiz questions
On the Create Quiz page, click Add Existing.Figure: Add existing quiz questions from a file, Question Library, or Learning Repository.
Do one of the following:
Click Upload a File to attach a file from your personal device. Then click Browse files and drag the appropriate file to the Upload a File window. Click Import All to import the questions in the file. Select Browse Question Library to choose questions from previous quizzes. Select the checkbox beside the questions you want to add to your quiz. Then, click Import.Select Import from the Learning Repository to browse and choose resources to add to your quiz. Search for a repository or select one of the available categories. Click to select the questions you want to add. Then, click Save.
Existing quiz questions are added to your new quiz.
Edit quiz questions
You can edit quiz questions by choosing to edit a quiz or during the quiz creation process.
To edit quiz questions
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the name of the quiz you want to change.
In the Questions section, click the question you want to edit.
In the dialog, edit your question by performing one or more of the following:To edit the question text, click inside the respective fields and write your change.If you want to edit the text format, click inside the field and click the Fullscreen option in the pop-up bar. Brightspace Editor opens in full with your question text. Click More Actions to trigger more editing options. Change the font size, format, add links, or use Insert Stuff to add more content.
When you're done editing, click the Fullscreen button again (if applicable) and click Save in the dialog.
Repeat steps 3-5 for other questions you want to edit.
Click Save and Close.
You have edited quiz questions.
Understand date restrictions
Quiz restrictions allow instructors to set start dates, due dates, and end dates on their quizzes. The start date determines when a quiz becomes available to learners. The end date determines when a quiz becomes unavailable to learners. The due date specifies a time when a quiz is expected to be completed. A quiz is considered late if it is submitted after the due date is reached. If a quiz has an enforced time limit and the learner uses more than the allotted time, the quiz is marked as exceeded time limit.
Set up Availability Dates & Conditions
Set a time frame for when the quiz is available and create conditions for accessing the quiz.
To set availability and conditions
From the New Quiz page, click to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.
Customize any of the following:Start Date: Specify the date when your quiz becomes available to students.End Date: Specify the date when your quiz is no longer available.Add availability dates to Calendar: Select the checkbox to add quiz availability dates to your course Calendar.Students will see the quiz availability dates in their Calendar. Calendar events are generated as the following:If the Start Date and End Date are set, separate events are created for when the quiz starts and when the quiz ends.If the Start Date is set, a Start Date event is created.If the End Date is set, an End Date event is created.Release Conditions: Only allow students to access the quiz if they meet its release conditions, or requirements. Click Add Release Conditions followed by either Create New or Add Existing. For example, you can create a release condition that only lets students view the quiz after they complete a specific module.Special Access: Makes the quiz available to select groups of students or create individualized due dates and customize the timing settings for certain students. Click Manage Special Access to set the conditions.Select one of the following options:Allow selected users special access to this quizAllow only users with special access to see this quizClick Add Users to Special Access. Figure: Click the Add Users to Special Access button in the Special Access settings window.Specify Properties: Due and Availability Dates.Set one or both of the following Timing options.Select Override time limit to set a new quiz duration for users with special access. You can choose one of the following options:No time limitSet time limit. You can change the value only in one of the following fields: New Time Limit (new quiz duration in minutes), Multiplier (how many times more the new limit is  than the original one) or Extra Time (additional time in minutes). Values in two other fields are calculated automatically. Select Override behavior when time limit is exceeded to set new conditions for users with special access after the time limit expires. You can choose one of the following options:Automatically submit the quiz attemptFlag as "exceeded time limit" and allow the learner to continue workingDo nothing: the time limit is not enforcedFigure: Set the Timing options.Set an Attempts option. If you select Override attempts allowed, you can set the number of attempts allowed from 1 to 10 and clickApply. If more than one attempt is applied, you can select optional Advanced Attempt Conditions. To restrict access to attempts, enter a minimum and maximum percentage (from 0% to 100%) that needs to be achieved on the previous attempt to qualify for another attempt.Select users for Special Access.Click Save.Password: Only learners who enter the password can access the quiz to write it.IP Restrictions: Only students with the IP addresses that you define can access the quiz.
If you have completed customizing your quiz, click Save and Close.
Availability dates and conditions are saved for your quiz.
Add special access to a quiz that requires Respondus LockDown Browser
If Respondus LockDown Browser is enabled for the course offering a quiz resides in, you can exempt individual students from the requirement to use the LockDown Browser when taking that quiz. 
Navigate to Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes tab, select the quiz to which you want to add special access. 
Click the Availability Dates & Conditions accordion.
Click Manage Special Access.

Figure: The Availability Dates & Conditions accordion showing the Manage Special Access option.
Click Add Users to Special Access.
            Figure: The Special Access dialog showing the Add Users to Special Access option.
On the Add Special Access to Quiz page, under LockDown Broswer, select Not required to take this quiz.
Select the students that you want to exempt from using the LockDown Browser for this quiz, and click Add Special Access. The students to whom you have granted this special access appear below the Add Users to Special Access button with a Do not require LockDown Browser for this quiz icon beside their names.
Note: The special access settings do not apply to all quizzes in a course offering automatically. You must add special access for students to each quiz separately. 
Set up Timing & Display
You can create a time limit for your quiz if needed and set up how the quiz displays to students.
To set a time limit 
If you do not want to set a time limit, do not select the Set time limit option. To set a time limit and enter the length of time for the quiz, follow the instructions below.
From the New Quiz page, click to expand the Timing & Display drop-down menu.
Select Set time limit.
In the Time Limit field, specify the length of time for the quiz in minutes.
Click Timer Settings.
 In the Timing dialog, under Quiz Start, select one of the following:If you want to set up a quiz that starts and ends at the same time for all students, select Synchronous: Timer starts on the start date.Note: If no start date and time is set for the synchronous quiz, the No Start date set alert appears under the selected option, and you cannot save the quiz. The Due Date option is disabled for synchronous quizzes. If you select the Synchronous: Timer starts on the start date option, do the following:Make sure the activity is visible in the Calendar (optional)Check that learners are aware of an upcoming quizProvide effective remindersFor more information about synchronous quizzes and informing students about upcoming synchronous quizzes refer to: Quizzes FAQ: Hot tips and workarounds.If you want to set up a quiz with flexibility for students to take a quiz in their own time, select Asynchronous: Timer starts when the learner launches the quiz.
 In the Timing dialog, under When The Time Limit Expires, select one of the following:               If you want to automatically submit the quiz when the time limit is exceeded, select Automatically submit quiz attempt.If you want learners to be able to continue working after the time limit, select Flag as time limit exceeded and allow the learner to continue working.If you do not want to enforce the time limit, select Do nothing: the time limit is not enforced.
Click OK.Figure: Set up a synchronous quiz.
To set quiz display 
From the New Quiz page, click to expand the Timing & Display drop-down menu.
Configure the following:Paging: Choose how questions are displayed on the quiz. Shuffle Quiz: To shuffle quiz questions and sections, select Shuffle Quiz.Display:To disable separate types of notifications, select Disable Email, Instant Messages, and Alerts within Brightspace.To show your quiz hints, select Allow Hints.Header and Footer: Click Manage Header and Footer to create a header or footer for your quiz.Note: The Header and Footer each have a character limit of 65,535 characters.Figure: Select the desired display settings.
If you have completed customizing your quiz, click Save and Close.
Timing and display settings are set for your quiz.
Video: Synchronize Quizzes for Learners

Set up Attempts & Completion
Configure the number of quiz attempts and manage how you track students' quiz completion.To set up attempts and completion
From the New Quiz page, click to expand the Attempts & Completion drop-down menu.Figure: The Attempts & Completion drop-down menu.
Customize the following:Attempts: Click Manage Attempts to set how many times a student can take a quiz.Category: Select a category for your quiz from the drop-down menu.Note: If you cannot see the Category drop-down menu, contact your administrator to ensure that your instance or Org Unit has the required configuration variable enabled.Notification Email: Enter email addresses for notification emails when a student completes a quiz.Completion Tracking: Click Manage Completion Tracking to set when a student is considered to have completed the quiz. If you select The student is marked as complete if they have a Passing Overall Quiz Grade and enter a grade, then you can trigger a message with emoticons at the end of the quiz that notifies learners if they passed or failed. Note: If you do not see Completion Tracking or Manage Completion Tracking in your quiz setup screen, your organization has either not purchased Completion Tracking as an add-on or your organization needs to enable it. To learn more about quiz creation experiences, refer to Comparing Quiz Creation Experiences.
If you have completed customizing your quiz, click Save and Close.
Attempts and completion settings are set for your quiz.
Set up Evaluation & Feedback
You can add assessment options to your quizzes to share attempt feedback and results using Evaluation & Feedback settings. This enables you to display quiz results upon completion and associating quizzes to grade items for the purposes of summative assessment. To set up quiz results and feedback
From the New Quiz page, click to expand the Evaluation & Feedback drop-down menu.Figure: The Evaluation & Feedback drop-down menu.
Customize the following:Auto-publish attempt results immediately upon completion: Publish quiz results for students  immediately after they complete the quiz.Synchronize to grade book on publish: Sync this quiz’s grades to Grade Book. The option is grayed if you have not set up Grade Book.When published, display to learners: Click Attempt grade to display students' attempt grade. Click the question display drop-down menu to select which questions are displayed to learners after publishing the quiz.Customize Quiz Results Display: Create a custom dialog for students after they finish their quiz. You can customize the Primary View that will appear immediately after students complete their quiz and a Secondary View that will appear later based on a date set by you.Learning Objectives: Click Manage Learning Objectives to associate learning objectives with your quiz.
If you have completed customizing your quiz, click Save and Close.
Evaluation and feedback settings are saved for your quiz.
Customize the Quiz Results Display
By default, students only see their attempted grades when attempts are evaluated upon submission. However, you can create a custom quiz result display that provides students with more insight into their attempt and the attempts of their peers.
To customize the quiz results display
From the New Quiz page or the editing page of an existing quiz, click the Evaluation & Feedback accordion.
Click Customize Quiz Results Displays.

Figure: Click the Evaluation & Feedback accordion and then click the Customize Quiz Results Displays button.
In the Customize Quiz Results Displays dialog, in the Primary View display section, click Edit View.

Figure: In the Primary View section, click Edit View.
Customize the quiz results display with the following details:Enter a message in the Custom Message field.In the Grade section, select or unselect the Display attempt grade for evaluated questions checkbox.In the Questions drop-down menu, select an option for how you want quiz questions displayed after a student submits their quiz.In the Statistics section, select the desired checkboxes if you want to Display class average or Display grade distribution stats to students.
Click Update.

Figure: Enter the details for your quiz results display.
If you want to add an additional view to the quiz, click the +Additional View button. The customization options are the same except you can also set a date and time when you want the additional view to appear.

Figure: Click the +Additional View option to add another quiz results display.
Click Create.
Click OK.
Click Save and Close.
Your custom quiz results display appears when students submit their quiz. If you also created an additional quiz results display, it will appear for students on the date and time set by you.
Video: Customize the Quiz Results Display

Create a quiz with negative grading
You can  use the Evaluation & Feedback settings of your quiz to enable negative grading when creating or editing a quiz. Negative grading sets a quiz to deduct a percentage of a question's point value for incorrect answers submitted. This feature applies specifically to question types that are auto-graded, for example, multiple-choice and true or false questions. The only question type that cannot be auto-graded is written response.
Note: D2L strongly recommends that you do not add mandatory questions to quizzes with negative grading and auto-submit enabled. This is because forcing learners to answer mandatory questions before submitting their quiz may also force learners to guess and incur an unfair point deduction. Negative grading is controlled by a configuration variable that is set to OFF by default. To enable negative grading in your course or Brightspace instance, contact your administrator. 
To create a quiz with negative grading
Select the module where you want to create a quiz and click Upload/Create.
Click New Quiz.Note: You can also edit existing quizzes to apply negative grading.
Expand Evaluation & Feedback and select Deduct points for incorrect answers.
Enter a percent value under Deduction.Note: The Deduction value subtracts a percentage of the point value of each quiz question. For example, if a quiz question is worth 1 point, a deduction of 25% will penalize users -0.25 points if their submitted answer is incorrect. The Deduction value cannot be higher than 100%.Figure: Under Evaluation & Feedback, select Deduct points for incorrect answers and enter a Deduction percentage.
Select Save and Close.
Your quiz now deducts points for incorrect answers submitted.
Note: If you are using Import/Export/Copy Components to import a quiz with a deduction percentage set, but negative grading is not turned on in your Org Unit or instance, deduction percentages are stored and display when the negative grading is turned on.
Video: Incorporate Activities

Publish your quiz
Make your quiz visible to students.To publish your quiz
Visibility: Toggle to make your quiz either Hidden or Visible to students.Figure: Save and Close and Visibility options.
Save and Close.
Your quiz is visible to students.
Restore a deleted quiz
Once a quiz has been deleted, an instructor can have it restored, along with any associated quiz attempts, statistics, and scores for those quiz attempts. Learning Outcomes associated with quiz questions are unaffected, and re-appear with the questions when the quiz is restored. Links to a grade item and competencies are not restored.
Note: Quizzes deleted before the August 2022 / 20.22.8 Release cannot be restored using this method.
To restore a quiz requires the View Quiz Setup and Delete and Restore Quizzes permissions. Contact your administrator if these permissions have not been granted to your role.
To restore a deleted quiz:
In the Quizzes tool, navigate to Manage Quizzes > More Actions.
Click Restore.Figure: The More Actions drop-down menu with the Restore option highlighted.
Find the quiz you wish to restore in the Restore List. The table lists Quiz Name, Deleted By, and Date Deleted.
Click Restore.Figure: The Restore Quizzes page.
Quiz Visibility
Toggle the visibility of quizzes to either hide quizzes from students' view or make it visible for them to access or view.
Hide a quiz
Hide quizzes from view so that students cannot access or see them.
To hide a quiz
Navigate to Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, from the Actions menu of a quiz, select Hide from Users.

Figure: The Actions menu for a quiz showing the Hide from Users option.
Note: You can also click Actions > Edit and change the quiz visibility on the creation page.
Make hidden quizzes visible
Make quizzes visible so that students can take them and see them.
To make hidden quizzes visible
Navigate to Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, from the Actions menu of a quiz, select Make Visible to Users.

Figure: The Actions menu for a quiz showing the Make Visible to Users option.
Note: You can also click Actions > Edit and change the quiz visibility on the creation page.
Bulk hide or display quizzes
Bulk hide or make quizzes visible to change students' view.
To bulk hide or display quizzes
Navigate to Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, select the checkbox for any item you want to change the visibility of.
Click More Actions and select Make Visible to Users or Hide from Users.

Figure: Selecting quizzes to change their visibility in bulk.
Manage Exemptions
You can manage exemptions by launching the Manage Exemptions page from the following locations in the Quizzes tool:
On the Manage Quizzes page, in the context drop-down menu to the right of a quiz.
On the Grade Quiz page as a button at the top of the page.
Preview a quiz attempt
There are often situations where you would like to see the end-to-end flow of submitting a quiz you created. This can easily be accomplished by leveraging the Preview function within the Quizzes tool. You can go through the process of viewing and submitting a quiz and have your quiz attempt available in the evaluation workflow.
Note: Your preview submissions will not impact the statistics for your course.
To preview a quiz attempt
Navigate to Quizzes.
Select the context menu of the quiz you want and click Preview.

Figure: Select the context menu and then select Preview.
Click the Start Quiz! button to take the quiz as a preview attempt.
Click Submit Quiz when you complete the quiz.
Select Allow this preview attempt to be graded in the Grade Quiz area and click Submit Quiz again.

Figure: Select Allow this preview attempt to be graded in the Grade Quiz area and then submit your quiz.
Click Exit Preview.
Click the context menu for the same quiz and click Grade.

Figure: Select the Grade option from the quiz's context menu.
In the Users tab, click Show Search Options.
In the Restrict to section, select Users who have previewed attempts.
Click the Search icon.

Figure: Select Users who have previewed attempts and then click Search.
You can now access the quiz attempt and see the evaluation workflow.
Set up a quiz report
You can view and export quiz reports to a CSV or Microsoft Excel file for data analysis. The file contains all applicable information from the quiz so that you can query, sort, and evaluate the data without being connected to the learning management system. You must set up quiz reports using the quiz context menu > Setup Reports option before you can view or export reports.
To view existing quiz reports, from the quiz context menu, click View Reports.
All statistics are calculated based on a user's first attempt of the quiz. If a question is changed after attempts have occurred, then only the attempts on the newest version of the question are included in the statistical calculations.
Select or deselect the Include exempted users in stats check box to either include or exclude exempted users in quiz statistics.
Average grade is calculated only for first attempts of the quiz.
For all reports, you can set a release date and select roles to release the report to.
Note: Quiz statistics are not computed for questions in a Question Pool.

Report Type


Details


Question Statistics


The average score on questions by points and percentage.
You can choose to include or exclude the class average, grade distribution, bonus questions, the Out Of value, standard deviation, point biserial, and discrimination index.


Question Details


All of the answers provided for each quiz attempt, how many users chose each possible answer, the total number of responses, and the average score on each question.
You can choose to include or exclude the level of difficulty, text responses, bonus questions, private comments added to the report, standard deviation, point biserial, and discrimination index.


User Statistics


The class average and standard deviation, grade distribution, and the grade of each user.
You can choose to include or exclude the class average, grade distribution, and Org Defined ID.


Attempt Details


The Org Defined ID, username, first name, and last name of each user. Detailed information about each question. The users’ responses for each question organized by attempt, including how long each attempt took.
You can choose to include or exclude the Org Defined ID and attempt duration.


User Attempts


The Org Defined ID, username, first name, and last name of each user. The users’ score for each question in points and percentage organized by attempt, including how long each attempt took.
You can choose to include or exclude the Org Defined ID and attempt duration.

Create a quiz report that can detail statistics such as the class average or score distribution for your quiz.
To create a quiz report
On the navbar, click Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, from the context menu of the quiz you want to create a report for, click Setup Reports.
Enter a Report Name.
Select your Report Type. Using the check boxes provided, customize your report's output.
Select when you want to release the report, and which roles you want to release it to.
Click Save.
A new quiz report is created.
Video: How to create a quiz report

Export the event log of all quiz attempts
You can export an event log of all quiz attempts made by all learners in your course. The event log for a quiz includes data about which users have completed the quiz, how many attempts they made, the date and time of quiz completion, and displays other events related to the quiz.
To export an event log
From your course navbar, click Quizzes.
Click the context menu next to the quiz you to export an event log for and select Grade.
On the Grade Quiz page, click More Actions > Export Event Logs.Figure: The Export Event Logs option of the Grade Quiz page.
Enter a name for the file.
Specify where you want to save the file.
Click Save.
The event log is exported.
Prevent cheating in quizzes
Prevent cheating by shuffling quiz questions and disabling outgoing communication such as Email or instant messages.
To prevent cheating in quizzes
From your course navbar, click Quizzes.
If you want to create a new quiz, click New Quiz. Or, click an existing quiz to open and edit the quiz.
Click to expand Timing and Display.Select Shuffle Quiz to shuffle questions and sections within the quiz.Select Disable Email, Instant Messages, and Alerts within Brightspace to prevent messaging within Brightspace while the student is taking the quiz.
Click Save and Close.
View the event log of a single quiz attempt
You can view an event log of a single quiz attempt made by an individual learner.
To view the event log of a single quiz attempt
From your course navbar, click Quizzes.
Click the Actions icon next to a quiz and select Grade.
Click the Attempts tab.
On the Grade Quiz page, select an attempt from the Attempt column.
From the Attempt page, click Event Options (...) and select Quizzes Event Log.
The event log of the quiz attempt is displayed.



--------------------------------------------------


Applying Respondus LockDown Browser to a quiz

You can create quizzes in two locations: The Content tool and the Quizzes tool. After you save the new quiz for your course, it appears in the Manage Quizzes tab. You can apply the Respondus LockDown Browser to any quiz listed in the Manage Quizzes tab using the options available in the LockDown Browser tab.
Note: For more information about how to create a quiz, refer to  Create and configure a quiz.

Figure: Click the Manage Quizzes tab of the Quizzes tool to display a list of current quizzes.
From the Brightspace home page, select the course where you have created the quiz. 
Click Quizzes from the navigation bar. If it does not appear on your navigation bar, click More and then select Quizzes from the list.
Click the LockDown Browser tab.Figure: Click LockDown Browser to view the LockDown Browser dashboard.
On the Dashboard tab of LockDown Browser, click the drop-down arrow beside your quiz and click Settings to open the LockDown Browser settings for the quiz.Figure: The arrows beside each quiz title opens the Respondus drop-down menu. Click this to access the menu options..Figure: Click the Settings option.
Click the Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam to change the setting.Figure: Click the Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam radio button to use LockDown Browser.Figure: When you select Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam, additional settings become available, including Password Settings, additional Advanced Settings, and Proctoring settings. 
Enter a Password to access exam, if applicable.
Click Advanced Settings to expand and view additional options.Figure: Check the desired options for your quiz in the The LockDown Browser settingsImportant: The settings in the Lockdown Browser Settings area are an integration with Respondus; only the two options selected in the previous image (Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam and Require LockDown Browser to view post-exam feedback and results) are saved to the Brightspace database. The other settings are saved by Respondus on their server.  As a result, if this quiz is copied into other courses, those two settings are the only two that are copied with the quiz into the new course.

Review the available Advanced Settings and select any that apply to your quiz.
Note: For more information about each Advanced Setting, click explain beside each list item.


Click to select any proctoring settings that are applicable. By default, Don’t require proctoring for this exam is selected.


Click Save + Close.

When you save the quiz with the Respondus LockDown settings applied, the name of the quiz is appended to include Requires Respondus LockDown Browser, and the Lockdown Browser column displays Required. If you edit the quiz name to remove the appended text, the LockDown Browser column in the dashboard displays Error with a Fix It button.  Click Fix It to re-append Requires Respondus LockDown Browser to the quiz name.

Figure: Quizzes with the Error status can be corrected by clicking the Fix It button. Quizzes have Requires Respondus Lockdown Browser appended to the title and Required status when correctly configured to use LockDown Browser. 
Using Special Access with Respondus LockDown Browser
Special Access makes a quiz available to select groups of learners or enables instructors to provide individualized due dates and custom timing settings for certain learners. Instructors can set Special Access for their learners in the Availability Dates & Conditions tab of their quiz. For more information, refer to the Set up Availability Dates & Conditions section of the Create and configure a quiz topic.
Within the Manage Special Access settings, there is a setting to specifically indicate if you require learners with special access to use Lockdown Browser for a quiz.
From within a quiz, click to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions area.Figure: Click the arrow to expand the Availability Dates & Conditions area of Quizzes.
Click Manage Special Access.Figure: You can access the Special Access options by clicking Manage Special Access.
Click Add Users to Special Access.Figure: Click the Add Users to Special Access button to view existing users that have special access and add new users to the list..
In the LockDown Browser area of the Special Access panel, click Not required to take this quiz.Figure: Check the Not required to take this quiz checkbox.
Important: If the Require Respondus LockDown Browser for this exam option is not turned on for this quiz, the LockDown Browser section does not appear in the Manage Special Access options.

Figure: An example that shows the same area of the Manage Special Access options as in Step 4, above, without the LockDown Browser option available.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage quiz questions

Use Question Library and Question Pools to create a randomized set of quiz questions
Randomizing your quiz questions prevents students from sharing the questions and answers with other students in the course. This prevents cheating and removes an advantage some students may have over others.
You must use Question Library  to provide a random set of quiz questions. Question Library is a central repository where you can store questions to reuse in a course. As a best practice, we recommend that you create all your questions using the Question Library. This ensures your questions are stored in one central location for reuse and access. For more information, refer to About Question Library.
Question Pools allow you to create quizzes with randomized questions while using the new Question Creation Experience. Question pools are an effective way to prevent cheating on quizzes as they ensure each student receives a unique set of questions. Once you have entered a title, the number of questions to select, and the points per question for your question pool, you can browse the Question Library or existing quizzes, surveys, and self-assessments, to select the desired questions. It is recommended that you organize your Question Library to include a section for each quiz. This makes it easier to locate the correct questions during the question pool creation process. A dynamic preview is automatically generated when questions are imported into a question pool. The preview allows teachers to quickly get an idea of how the question pool appear to students when taking the quiz.
To create a question pool and give each student a random set of quiz questions
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the name of your quiz.
Click Create New > Question Pool.Figure: Click Create New and then click Question Pool.
In the New Question Pool dialog, enter a title in the Question Pool Title field.
Enter the number of questions you want taken randomly from the pool in the Number of Questions to Select field.
Enter the number of points each question is worth in the Points per Question field.
Click Browse Question Library.Figure: Enter your question pool details in the fields.
Select the questions you want to include in the question pool by selecting the question's check box. Questions are automatically chosen at random from the ones you select.Note: If you are also using sections in your Question Library, you can select questions from different sections. You may have to expand the section (and sub-sections) to see the nested questions.
Click Import to add the questions to the question pool.
Click Save.
Repeat this process if you have multiple sections in your quiz, with each section drawing a random set of questions.
Click Save and Close.
You have created a section and given each student a random set of questions.
Video: Create a randomized set of quiz questions

About random sections 
You can create random sections in quizzes to distribute a unique set of questions to individual users. Random sections pull questions from a designated pool of questions (Question Pool) stored in the Question Library.
Since you can only access random sections within quizzes, you must create a quiz before you can create its random sections. You can import an infinite number of questions from Question Library into each random section, but you cannot create new questions within random section folders.
Managing random sections (renaming, reordering, deleting) is similar to managing quiz questions except you cannot publish random sections.
Converting random sections to question pools
In the quiz creation experience, all existing random sections convert to question pools. This does not change the quiz taking experience for students. 
In some cases, the system prompts you to move content from a former random section into a parent section. This occurs when either of the following conditions are met:
The random section settings have Show Section Name selected.
The random section message field contains information.
When you  convert the random section, the title and message information moves to a parent section, and the randomization settings and questions move to a question pool nested inside that parent section.
Shuffle all the questions and sections in a quiz
If you want each student to see all the questions or sections in a quiz in a different order, the quiz should contain questions only or questions in sections. 
To shuffle all the questions and sections in a quiz
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the name of your quiz.
Expand the Timing & Display accordion.
Under Shuffle Quiz, select Shuffle questions and sections within the quiz. Does not cascade to sub-sections.Figure: Select Shuffle questions and sections within the quiz. Does not cascade to sub-sections in the Timing & Display accordion.
Click Save and Close.
You have shuffled all the questions and sections of your quiz.
Shuffle a set of quiz questions using a section
Shuffle questions in a quiz while ensuring that certain questions appear in the same order.
To create a section and give each learner quiz questions in a different order in that section
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the name of your quiz.
Click Create New > Section.Figure: Click Create New and then click Section.
In the New Section dialog, enter a title in the Section Title field. Optionally, enter a section description in the Section Text field. Note: The Section Title is, by default, visible to students. To ensure students do not see the title, select Hide Section Title from learners. 
Select Shuffle questions in this section.Figure: Enter a Section Title and select Shuffle questions in this section.
Click Save.
Drag and drop individual questions from your quiz into the relevant section. To move multiple questions into a section simultaneously, select the check box next to the questions, select Move To > Section, and then select the section name.
Click Save and Close.
You have shuffled your quiz questions while maintaining a specific order for some questions in a section.
Randomize the answer choices in multiple choice and multi-select quiz questions
If you want to discourage your students from cheating on quizzes with multiple choice and multi-select questions, you can randomize the answer choices for each question so the correct answer(s) are in a different order for each student. 
Note: When using answer choices that require the order to remain constant, for example answer choice C is Both A and B, or the final answer choice is All of the above, you do not want to randomize the answer choices in those types of questions.
To randomize answer choices in multiple choice and multi-select quiz questions
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click on the name of a question with the Type being MC (multiple choice) or MS (multi-select).
Select Randomize answer order below the answer options.Figure: Select Randomize answer order.
Click Save.
Click Done Editing Questions.
You have randomized the answer choices for a multiple choice or multi-select question.
Create bonus quiz questions
Create bonus questions to allow students a chance to score extra marks on their quiz.
To create bonus quiz questions
Navigate to Quizzes or Content.
Click the desired quiz.
Select the questions that you want to make as bonus questions.
Click More Actions.
Click Toggle Bonus.Figure: Select Toggle Bonus from the More Actions drop-down menu.Note: Bonus questions are shown to students with the word (Bonus) displayed.Figure: All bonus questions are shown with (Bonus) displayed.
Provide a random  set of bonus quiz questions
You can also provide a random set of bonus questions in your quiz.
To provide a random set of bonus questions
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the name of your quiz.
Click Create New > Question Pool.Figure: Click Create New and then click Question Pool.
In the New Question Pool dialog, enter a title in the Question Pool Title field.
Enter the number of questions you want taken randomly from the pool in the Number of Questions to Select field.
Enter the number of points each question is worth in the Points per Question field.
Click Browse Question Library.Figure: Enter your question pool details in the fields.
Select the random question section.
Click More Actions and select Toggle Bonus.Figure: Select Toggle Bonus from the More Actions menu.
Change a bonus question into a mandatory question
You can change a bonus quiz question to a mandatory question.
To change a bonus question to a mandatory question
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click the quiz you want to edit.
Click the checkboxes for the bonus questions you want to make mandatory.
Click More Actions > Toggle Mandatory.Figure: Click More Actions > Toggle Mandatory to turn a bonus question into a mandatory question.
Click Save and Close.
You have changed the selected bonus question into mandatory question.
Note: If you no longer want to a make a question mandatory, repeat steps 3-4 to remove the mandatory setting. By clicking the Toggle Mandatory option, you can add or remove the mandatory setting.
Use Sections to organize quiz questions
You can use sections to organize  related quiz questions and display them to students with a section header on a single page. This is useful when you want to present  questions to a student, but also organize questions conceptually by theme or parent topic. For example, sections could allow you to present all questions related to biology on a single page, or display a series of single biology questions on pages, each with the same section header.
To use sections to organize quiz questions
From your organization or course navbar, click Quizzes.
Click New Quiz.
Enter a Name for your quiz.
Under Questions, click Create New and select Section. The New Section page opens.Figure: Enter details into New Section page.
Enter a Section Title and click Save.
To create a quiz question to add to this section, click Create New > New Question or select a question from the Question Pool.
Click and drag the quiz question into the Section. The quiz question nests under the Section.Figure: Review the Section of a quiz with all associated questions nested under it.
Repeat steps 5 to 7 to create more sections and nested quiz questions.
Click Timing & Display. Under Paging select Add page break after each section. This ensures that each section and all quiz questions nested under that section will display separately on a page.Figure: Select the Paging option as Add page break after each section.
Click Save and then click Preview. 
Note: When you preview, each Section that you create displays all the questions nested under it on a single page.
Sections are added to your quiz to display related questions on a single page.
Align learning outcomes to quiz questions 
When you align a question to a learning outcome, the learning outcomes is aligned to all uses of that question within quizzes in the same course offering. It is possible to bulk align to all questions within a question pool or section.In addition, you can align learning outcomes  to question pools. If you align a question pool to an outcome, all questions in that pool are aligned in all incidences of the question inside and outside the question pool. 
Note: The name of Learning Outcomes  depends on the language term defined by your organization. Based on that setting, Learning Outcomes may be labeled Competencies, Expectations, Objectives, or Standards. Contact your administrator for more information.
To align learning outcomes to quiz questions
From the course navbar or Course Admin > Assessment, click Quizzes.
Click a quiz that already contains quiz questions.Figure: Click a quiz with quiz questions from the Manage Quizzes tab.
Select one or more questions or question pools to be aligned with standards, then click More Actions.Note: The More Actions drop-down menu does not activate until you have at least one item selected.
	Click Align to Learning Outcomes. 
Select the check boxes for the learning outcomes you want to align to the quiz questions and click Add.
The associated learning outcomes now appear under each of the selected questions.
To remove learning outcome alignments on quiz questions
Select one or more questions or question pools that are aligned with standards and click More Actions.
Click Align to Learning Outcomes.
Uncheck boxes for the learning outcomes you want to remove from the quiz questions and click Add. 
The associated standards are now removed from the question.
When a question in a quiz has a learning outcome aligned to it, an outcome tag appears next to the question in the Quiz Builder View and the Question Pool Editor. The Question Pool view also shows the cumulative list of all outcomes aligned to questions within the pool. 
Customize the submission view to show quiz answers to students
To release the submission view to students immediately upon completion of the quiz, on the Edit quiz page > Assessment tab, select the Auto-publish attempt results immediately upon completion check box. Submission views are set up in terms of a default view and an additional view. The default view enables all students, for instance, to see their final quiz score immediately after submitting the quiz. You could edit the default view and show questions answered incorrectly, show questions answered correctly, show all questions without user responses, or show all questions with user responses. Displaying a detailed submission view to all students immediately after submitting a quiz would work if all students took the quiz at the same time. However, if students are completing the quiz at different times, and you want to ensure that studentsdo not share the answer key with other learners, you may choose to create an additional submission view. This additional view only appears tostudents when you publish the feedback on a quiz attempt.
To customize the quiz submission view
On the navbar, click Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes tab, click the quiz you want to create a submission view for.
Click on the Evaluation and Feedback drop-down list.
Click Customize Quiz Results Displays.Figure: Click Customize Quiz Results Displays .
Click Edit View to customize the submission view. The questions are visible to learners in the submission view, select one of the following options to specify how you want the questions to appear:
Don't show - No questions appear in the submission view.All Questions - All quiz questions and learner responses are displayed in the submission view.Incorrect questions only with learner responses - Only incorrectly answered questions appear in the submission view.Correct questions only with learner responses - Only correctly answered questions appear in the submission view.Figure: Select how you want questions to appear on the results page.
Click Update.
Click OK to return to the Manage Quizzes page.
For the When publishing, display to learners section, you can choose to show students their Attempt grade and choose from the dropdown list how the questions should display in the submission view.
Click OK.
Click Save and Close.
Submission view settings are saved for your quiz.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage questions in the Quiz Builder

Add or edit Questions
To add or edit questions
On the Manage Quizzes page, click either Add Existing or Create New.To add previous questions and resources, click Add Existing and select any of the following:Upload a File allows you to browse files on your personal device to attach to your quiz.Click Browse Files.Drag the file you want to add to the Upload a File window.Click Save.Browse Question Library lets you choose to add questions from previous quizzes.Click the checkbox of the questions you want to add to your quiz.Click Import.Import from Learning Repository allows you to browse and choose learning resources to add to your quiz.Search for a repository in the search bar or select one of the available categories.Choose the questions you want to add.Click Save.To create new questions for your quizzes, click Create New and select any of the following:New Question lets you choose to create a new question.Choose the type of question you want to create.Enter the details for your question.Click Save to close the window; click Save and New to save the current question and begin a new question; or click Save and Copy to create a new question that is a copy of the current question.Section allows you to create a new section for the quiz.Write the Section Title.Write the Section Text, if any.You can choose to select checkboxes that allow you to Hide Section Title from learners, Hide Section Text from learners, and Shuffle questions in this section.Question Pool allows you to add previously-used questions to your quiz and define a marking scheme for that specific question pool.Write a Question Pool Title. Specify the number of questions from the pool that you want to appear to learners and how many points learners will receive for each question they answer correctly. The appropriate number of questions will be chosen randomly for each quiz attempt. Click Browse Question Library to search for and select the questions or the entire section of questions you want to add, and click ImportClick Save.
Click Save and Close.
Move and reorder questions
To move and reorder questions
Individual questions can be moved by dragging and dropping them into the desired location. If you want to move multiple questions, you can use the Move To menu.
Select the checkboxes for the questions you want to move.
Click Move To and select from the available options:
Top of the Quiz
Bottom of the Quiz
Section
Note: When choosing the Section option, the menu expands to display all available sections in the quiz.
Delete alignments from quiz questions
 You can remove alignments individually on the main Quiz Builder screen, or remove alignments to individual questions within question pools in the Question Pool editor.
Browse to the quiz or question pool.
Do one of the following:Click the X on the alignment tag in the question pool to delete the alignment for all questions within the pool.Click the X on the alignment tag on an individual question to delete the tag for that question only.Select several questions, then click to clear the outcomes alignment for those questions only.
Add Questions from the Browse Question Library window
From the Edit Quiz or New Quiz page, click Add/Edit Questions. 
From the Import drop-down menu, click Browse Question Library. 
                To search in the Question Library, enter a keyword in the Search question text field.
To search in any other quiz in the course, from the Source drop-down menu, select the quiz.Note: You can filter the search results by question type and sort the search results by question type and points or alphabetically by title or text.
Select the question(s) you want to add and do one of the following:
Click Import to automatically add the questions to the end of the quiz. 
Click the Import drop-down menu to select the section of the quiz to add questions. You can select Import to Top of the Quiz, Import to bottom of the Quiz, or Import to Section > [Section name]. 
Click Done Editing Questions.
Click Done Editing Questions.
Import questions from Brightspace Learning Repository
To import questions from the Brightspace Learning Repository
From the Manage Quizzes pages, click Add Existing.
Click Import from Learning Repository.
Navigate to the repository and select the check boxes for the quiz or questions you want to import. 
Click Select.
Export questions to Brightspace Learning Repository
To export questions to Brightspace Learning Repository
From the Manage Quizzes page, click the checkboxes for the questions you want to export
Click the More Actions menu and click Publish to the LOR.
Do one of the following:To publish to an existing repository, select Pick a Repository. From the drop-down menu, select a repository. To overwrite an existing learning object, select Overwrite an existing object. Click Search. Locate the repository you want to overwrite. To have your learning object inherit the previous object's metadata, clear the Replace existing object's metadata check box. 
Click Sharing and Publishing Options and do any of the following:To leave the page while your package is being built, select Publish in the background.To hide the learning object from searches, select Hide learning object in search results.To associate the learning object with Creative Commons rights, select Creative Commons licensed. From the drop-down menu, select your modifications preference. Creative Commons licensing enables you to retain copyright on your work while allowing different degrees of reuse to other users. Associating a creative commons license automatically populates the metadata rights fields with this information.
In the Learning Objects to Publish area, clear the check box for any item you do not want to include in the package. Clearing a folder clears all its associated questions and sub-folders.
Click Next.
On the Detected Files page, do any of the following:To add additional files to the package, click Add Files. Locate the file and click Add.To add additional folders to the package, click Add Folders. Locate the folder and click Select a Path.
Click Next.
On the Metadata page, to classify your learning object, click Classifications. From the Classification Schema drop-down list, select a schema. Click Select. Click the Add icon for any classification you want to add. Click Save.
Click Publish to LOR.




--------------------------------------------------


Quizzes FAQ: Hot tips and workarounds

While the Quizzes tool offers many ways to create and edit your quizzes, certain platform limitations can occur. The following FAQ addresses those limitations and how to make the Quizzes tool work in your favor.
Can I change the number of quiz points to fix grades?
No, you cannot change the maximum points on completed quiz attempts. If you need to change the maximum points for a quiz that students have already taken, like editing or deleting a quiz question, this can only be done in your grade book. If you edit or delete any questions, the overall grades in Quizzes will be updated to match what is in the grade book and marked with the label manually overwritten.
How do I change the maximum number of points for a quiz?
The maximum number of points cannot be changed for completed attempts, so you will need to change the maximum points in the grade book. However, this can only be done after clearing out students' grades in the grade item using Retract Feedback in the quiz. Students' grades will not be changed since the points they earned relative to the total points remain the same. The points in the grade book will be equal to the points earned in the attempt multiplied by (new maximum points / old maximum points). This is the only case where the points in the overall grade in the quiz and the grade book do not match, but the percentages match.
To change the maximum number of points for a quiz
Navigate to Assessments > Quizzes.
Click the drop-down menu for the quiz you want to edit and select Grade. 
Select all quiz attempts and click Retract Feedback to clear out quiz grades from your grade book.
Navigate to Assessments > Grades.
Change the maximum points on the associated grade item.
When the pop-up dialog appears, click Yes.
Navigate again to Assessments > Quizzes.
Click the quiz drop-down menu and select Grade.
Select all attempts and click Publish to send the updated grades to the grade book.
Note: If you change the maximum points before retracting feedback, the wrong grades are sent back to the quiz.
How do I change a quiz question to a bonus question?
If you change a quiz question to a bonus question, the question only changes for future attempts and not for already-completed attempts. However, this is resolved by decreasing the maximum points for the grade item.
To change a quiz question to a bonus question 
Navigate to Assessments > Quizzes.
Click the name of the quiz you want to edit.
Click the checkbox beside the quiz question you want to make a bonus question.
Click More Actions > Toggle Bonus.
Click Save and Close.
Navigate to Assessments > Grades.
Change the maximum points on the associated grade item to the new, lower number of maximum points, allowing for extra credit.
Check the Can Exceed box if you want students to be able to receive more than 100% for the grade item. Check the Can Exceed box on the category and Final Calculated Grade if you want students to be able to receive more than 100% for the category and final grade.
How do I change points for a question on an in-progress quiz?
Changing the points a question is worth will only change it for future attempts, but not for completed attempts. You can alter grades in the grade book by updating the maximum points on the grade item and updating all attempts.
To change the points for a question on an in-progress quiz 
Navigate to Assessments > Grades.
Click the Can Exceed checkbox on the grade item so that students' earned points transfer correctly to the grade book.
Navigate to Assessments > Quizzes.
Click the name of the quiz you want to edit.
Check the box next to the question you want to change. Then click More Actions > Set Points.
Enter the new number of points and click Save.
Click Save and Close.
Click the drop-down menu for the quiz and select Grade.
In the Questions tab, click Update all attempts and click the question whose points you want to change.Note: Any changed questions can be located under Questions that are not in the quiz anymore  at the bottom of the page.
Click give to attempts with answer, choose or enter the correct response, and enter the new points. Click Save.
Note: Students' grades are currently still incorrect for the quiz attempt.
Navigate again to Assessments > Grades.
Change the maximum points on the associated grade item.
How do I delete a question for an in-progress quiz?
Deleting a question from a quiz only deletes it from future attempts. The question still appears on completed attempts. You can change the number of points students received for the question on the completed attempts to zero, but the maximum points for the quiz will not change. This means students' grades will be temporarily incorrect in the quiz after you update all attempts to zero for the deleted question.
To delete a question for an in-progress quiz 
Navigate to Assessments > Quizzes.
Click the name of the quiz you want to edit.
Click the checkbox next to the question you want to delete. Then click More Actions > Delete.
Click Delete again on the pop-up dialog. 
Click Save and Close.
Click the quiz drop-down menu and select Grade.
Click the Questions tab.
Select Update all attempts. Click on the question you deleted under Questions that are not in the quiz anymore.
Select give to all attempts, enter zero for the points, and click Save.
Note: Students' grades are currently still incorrect.
Navigate to Assessments > Grades.
Change the maximum points on the associated grade item.
How do I dismiss a quiz question without deleting it?
If you would rather not delete an unwanted question from a quiz, there are other options depending on how you want students' grades to be affected.
Give             students extra credit
Make the unwanted question a bonus question and decrease the maximum points in the grade book. This option increases grades for all students.
Give             students full credit
Give all students full points for the unwanted question by using Update all attempts. The maximum points for the quiz remains the same. This option increases the grades for students who got the question wrong, but the grades of students who got it right does not change.
Do not give             students any credit
Change the unwanted question to a bonus question worth 0.00001 points (it is not possible for a question to be worth zero points), give all students zero points using Update all attempts, and decrease the maximum points in the grade book. This option increases the grades of students who got the question wrong and decreases the grades of students who got it right (unless their score was 100%). 
How to inform students about upcoming synchronous quizzes?
To ensure that students are aware of upcoming synchronous quizzes, you should create instructional or manual solutions:
Make a synchronous quiz visible in the Calendar:Select Add availability dates to Calendar or set up an event showing the whole time.Use the Start Date parameter when setting up a synchronous quiz and leave the End Date field empty.Note: Studentsmust have the Allows Out of Date Quizzes to be Viewed in the User Quiz List permission to open the quiz from the calendar and check the Quiz information page.
Create an announcement with information about the synchronous quiz.
Set up an event and give a link to the quiz to provide more context.
Content in this topic was adapted from Brightspace by D2L Tips: Change Quiz Points to Fix Grades by Dr. Jennifer Lynn Wagner.




--------------------------------------------------


Creating Question Library questions

You can use the Question Library to create a repository of question objects in Brightspace. You can use the Question Library to copy, import, edit, organize into sections, and add questions to quizzes, surveys, or self-assessments.
Note: For a secure and consistent editing experience in Brightspace, creating any of the following question types automatically filters out JavaScript and non-standard HTML: Likert, Ordering, Matching, Fill in the Blanks, Short Answer, Multi-Short Answer, Arithmetic, and Significant Figures. For more general information about Question Library, refer to About Question Library.
Organize questions with sections
You can create sections in Question Library to organize your questions. 
To create a section
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Section.Figure: Select Section from the New drop-down menu.
Enter a Section Title.Figure: Enter a Section Title and fill in relevant information for your new section.
To hide the section title from learners, select the Hide Section Title from learners check box.
To add a description of this section, enter the Section Text.
To hide the section text from learners, select the Hide Section Text from learners check box.
To shuffle sections and question pools in this section, select the Shuffle questions in this section check box. Note: The shuffle functionality does not cascade to sub-sections.
Click Save.
Video: Overview of Question Types

Short descriptions for questions
The Short Description field is used to differentiate quiz questions in Question Library. The Short Description field  is only accessible to you from Question Library.  Students cannot see this field when taking a quiz or using any kind of tool to see the raw HTML.
Note: When editing or viewing an individual question, the Short Description field displays; however, when viewing all questions from Question Library, the Name column displays, with the Short Description for each quiz question  appearing under the Name column.
Create true or false questions
True or false (T/F) questions present a statement which respondents must determine is correct or incorrect.
To create true or false questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select True or False Question (T/F).
In the Question Text field, enter your true or false question. A preview of the question appears in the preview pane as you begin creating the question.Figure: Enter a true or false question in the Question Text field.
In the Answers area, select True or False as the correct answer.
Set the number of Default Points earned if a users answers the true or false question correctly.
From the Options drop-down list, optionally, specify the following:To add feedback for each answer, select Add Feedback.To add a hint to the question, select Add Hint.To add a short description to the question, select Add Short Description.To select how you want your options to be enumerated, select an option from the Add Enumeration > Enumeration drop-down list.
Click Save.
Video: Create a New Question

Create multiple choice questions
Multiple choice (M/C) questions present a statement or question with a list of possible answers, in which learners must choose the best possible answer. Multiple choice questions differ from multi-select questions in that learners select one answer for each multiple choice question.
If you create a multiple choice question that has more than one possible solution, you can weight the answer according to the correctness of each possible answer.
For example, if two answer choices out of five options are accepted as correct, both can be weighted 100% and the other three options can be weighted at 0%. If all five answer choices are accepted as correct but some are more correct than others, each can be weighted in ascending order with the most correct answers weighted more than the least correct answers.
To create multiple choice questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Multiple Choice.Figure: Enter the required information for your multiple choice question.
In the Question Text field, enter your multiple choice question. A preview of the question appears in the preview pane as you begin creating the question.
In the Answers area, enter the answers for the multiple choice question.
To add additional answers, click Add Answer.
If you want to allow each student to submit random answers, select the Randomize answer order.
Set the Default Points for the multiple choice question.
From the Options drop-down list, optionally, specify the following:To add feedback for each answer, select Add Feedback.To add a hint to the question, select Add Hint.To add a percentage weight for each answer, select Add Custom Weights. You can set different weights for each answer if some solutions are more correct than others.To add a short description to the question, select Add Short Description.To select how you want your options to be enumerated, select an option from the Add Enumeration > Enumeration drop-down list.
Click Save.
Create multi-select questions
Multi-select (M-S) questions require respondents to identify one or more correct answers in a list of possible answers. Unlike multiple choice (MC) questions, multi-select questions enable you to choose a grading method and allow users to select more than one answer.
To create a multi-select question
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Multi-Select Question (M-S).Figure: Enter the required information for your multi-select question.
In the Question Text field, enter your question. As you select the field, a pop-up toolbar displays for formatting the text and adding images, links, and graphical equations. As you complete the field, the preview pane displays how it appear to learners.
Under Answers, enter possible answers. Select the check box for each correct answer. 
                                To add  optional information to the multi-select question, click Options and choose one or more of the following: Add Feedback, Add Hint, Add Short Description, and Add Enumeration.Enter information as required.
If you want to allow each student to submit random answers, select the Randomize answer order.
Specify a value for Default Pointsand select one of the following How are points assigned to blanks? options:
All or Nothing: Students earn full points only when all correct answers are selected and all incorrect answers are left blank.Students cannot earn partial points.Correct Selections: Points are evenly distributed across all answers. Students earn partial points for each answer correctly selected and left blank.Correct Answers, Limited Selections: Points are evenly distributed across correct answers only. The number of selections allowed is limited to the number of correct answers. Students earn partial points for each correct answer selected.Right Minus Wrong Selections: Points are evenly distributed across all answers. Students earn partial points for each answer correctly selected and left blank. Students lose points for answers incorrectly selected or left blank. Students cannot receive less than 0 points.
Click Save.
Video: Create a Multi-Select Question

Create written response questions
Written response (WR) questions require respondents to write detailed answers in response to open-ended questions. You can enable users to respond in multiple sentences, paragraph answers, or mathematical explanations and calculations, and attach files and images to support their answers. Students can also respond in HTML code.
Note: HTML code is sometimes stripped from saved written responses if a student refreshes the page while taking the quiz. As a best practice, encourage students to save a version of their HTML response locally in case they need to refresh the page. Written response questions are not auto-graded. Quiz attempts that have a combination of auto-graded and written response questions display the status Pending Evaluation on the User and Attempts pages in Quizzes to easily identify attempts that require manual grading.
To create written response questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Written Response (WR).Figure: Enter the required information for your written response question.
In the Question Text field, enter your written response question details.
If you want students to be able to format their answer, select the Enable HTML Editor for learner responses.
To allow students to attach files and images to support their answers, select the Allow learners to insert images and add attachments.
In the Default Points field, enter the points students will receive for answering the whole question correctly.
From the Options drop-down list, do one of the following:To add feedback for the answer, select Add Feedback.To add a hint to the question, select Add Hint.To add a short description to the question, select Add Short Description.To add an answer key to assist evaluators in their marking, select Add Answer Key.To add a custom size to the response box, select Add Custom Response Box Size.To add initial text for learner responses, select Add Initial Text and enter the desired text.
Click Save.
Video: Add an Answer Key

Create short answer questions
Short answer (SA) questions require respondents to create one word or brief sentence answers in response to open-ended questions.
To create short answer questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Short Answer Question (SA).Figure: Enter the required information for your short answer question.
In the Question Text field, enter your short answer question details.
In the Answers for Blank 1 field, enter your answer(s).
From the abc drop-down list for blank 1, select from the following comparison methods:
Text
Case-Sensitive Text
Regular Expression.Note: All answers for a blank are assessed using the same comparison method.
If you want to add more blanks, click Add Blank and enter your answer(s).
For all additional blanks, select the comparison method.
In the Default Points field, enter the points students will receive for answering the question correctly. 
From the How are points assigned to blanks? drop down list, select one of the following options: Learners will receive part marks - The default points for each blank are calculated automatically and evenly distributed.Learners must answer all blanks correctly - The default points will only be awarded if the learner answers all blanks accurately.
From the Options drop-down list, do one of the following:To add overall feedback for the answer, select Add Feedback.To add a hint to the question, select Add Hint.To add a short description to the question, select Add Short Description.
Click Save.
Note: As a best practice, D2L recommends that the weight of each possible solution equals 100% if you require only one answer. If your question requires multiple answers, and each answer has several possible solutions, we recommend that the combined weight of each answer's most correct solution be equal to 100%.
Create multi-short answer questions
Multi-short answer (MSA) questions require respondents to answer a multi-solution question and input their answers into individual input boxes. Respondent's answers are checked against each possible answer stored in the answer fields. Multi-short answer questions differ from short answer (SA) questions in that the multi-short answer question enables you to create multiple answer boxes which all relate to one answer set; short answer questions also support multiple answer boxes, but each requires a distinct set of possible answers. The short answer question type is ideal if you need to create a multi-part question that cannot share the same answer pool.
For example, the question "Name 3 state capitals" displays three input boxes to users. Each answer users submit is checked against 51 possible correct answers stored in the answer fields and each answer field has a weight of 33.3%.Note: D2L recommends that the required number of answers corresponds with the number of input boxes provided. An MSA question's maximum point value is reflected by a 100% weight. As a best practice, D2L recommends that each possible answer's weight calculation equals 100% divided by the number of answers required by the question.
To create multi-short answer questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Multi-Short Answer Question (MSA).
In the General area, enter your multi-short answer question details.
In the Options area, do the following:
In the Input boxes field, enter the number of required answer fields you want your question to have. You can assign the number of rows and columns for each answer field.In the Answer fields, enter the correct answers for your question, the weight for each answer, and how you want the answers to be evaluated.Note:  You can set different weights if some solutions are more correct than others.To assign more possible answers for the question, click Add Answer.Figure: Set up your multi-short answer questions in the Options area.
Click Save to create your multi-short answer question.
Create fill in the blanks questions
Fill in the blanks (FIB) questions require respondents to fill in one or more missing words for an incomplete sentence, statement, phrase, list, or key terminology.
Note: As a best practice, D2L recommends that answers in blank fields be no more than one or two words to ensure auto-grading accuracy. Your listed order of blank and text fields corresponds with the sequence displayed to users. An FIB question's maximum point value is reflected by a 100% weight. As a best practice, the combined weight of your answers should equal 100%. If your FIB question has multiple blank fields and each blank field has several possible answers, D2L recommends the combined weight of each blank field's most correct answer equals 100%.
To create fill in the blanks questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Fill in the Blanks Question (FIB).
In the General area, enter your fill in the blanks question details. 
In the Question Text area, do the following:Enter the question text in the Text #1 area.In the Blank #1 area, enter answer information, including the answer to the text, the weight you want to assign the answer (you can set different weights if some solutions are more correct than others), and how you want to evaluate the answer.To assign more possible answers for the blank, click Add Answer.To add more blanks to the question, click Add Blank.To add more text to the question, click Add Text.Figure: Set up your fill in the blanks  questions in the Options area.Note: Click Preview to review how the question is displayed to users.
Click Save to create your fill in the blanks question.
Video: Create Complex Fill in the Blanks Questions

Understanding grading options for short answer, multi-short answer, and fill in the blanks questions
There are three possible grading options for short answer, multi-short answer, and fill in the blanks questions:
Case Insensitive: Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text with or without letter case correctness.
Case Sensitive: Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text that must have letter case correctness.
Regular Expression: Auto-grading uses meta-characters to search for one or more matching strings in the answer text's character pattern. What you set as meta-character parameters helps determine letter case sensitivity.
Create matching questions
Matching (MAT) questions require respondents to choose from a set of possible match choices from drop-down lists and correctly pair them with related items. This question type enables you to assess users' recognition of information and demonstrate comprehension of specific relationships.
To create matching questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Matching Question (MAT).
In the General area, enter your matching question details. 
In the Choices area, do the following:Select the Grading method for the question.In each Value field, enter a choice.To add additional values for the question, click Add Choice.Figure: Create the choices you want to provide to users.
In the Matches area, do the following:In each Value field, enter a matching answer to the choices you created. To add additional matches for the question, click Add Match.From the drop-down list for each matching value, select the corresponding Correct Choice. Figure: Create the matching answers to the choices you created.
To verify your question, click Preview. 
Click Save to create the matching question.
Video: Create a Matching Question

Create ordering questions
Ordering (ORD) questions require respondents to arrange a series of items into a correct sequence or order.
To create ordering questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Ordering Question (ORD).
In the General area, enter your ordering question details. 
In the Options area, do the following:Select your Grading method:Equally weighted - The total point value is divided equally among all possible correct matches. Users receive equally weighted points for each correct answer.All or nothing - Users receive full points for the question if they select all of the correct answers and none of the incorrect answers. Users receive zero points if they miss any correct answers or select any incorrect answers.Right minus wrong - Users receive points equal to the number of right answers they choose minus the number of incorrect answers they choose. To determine how much each answer is worth, the system takes the total number of points assigned to the question and divides it by the total number of answer choices. For example, if a question is worth 10 points and has 5 answer choices, each correct answer is worth 2 points, and each incorrect answer is worth - 2 points (10/5 = 2). If a user gives 3 correct answers and 2 incorrect answers, 2 is the total number of points received for the question [(3*2)+(2*-2)]. Users can receive a minimum of zero on a question; they cannot receive a negative mark.In each Value field, enter a choice. To add more values, click  Add Item.From the Correct Order drop-down list for each value, set the order of the values. Note: The first value in the correct order should be 1.Figure: Set up your ordering question in the Options area.
To verify your question, click Preview. 
Click Save to create your ordering question.
Create arithmetic questions
Arithmetic questions enable you to assess users' knowledge and comprehension of mathematics and number theory. You can ensure each respondent receives a unique question by including variables enclosed with curly braces that randomly generate numbers within the problem. For example, if you set variables x, y, and z with a Min 1 to Max 5 number range in 1-step increments, the question “You have {x} green marbles, {y} red marbles, and {z} blue marbles. How many marbles do you have in total?” will randomly generate a rational number (1, 2, 3, 4, 5) for {x}, {y}, and {z}.
Note: In arithmetic questions, D2L recommends using answer precision to limit the number of acceptable decimal places allowed in a response. You can require that correct answers contain a specific number of decimal places.
To create arithmetic questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Arithmetic Question (2+2).
In the Title field, enter an optional title for your question.
In the Points* field, enter the number of points a learner will receive for answering the question correctly.
Set the Difficulty level for the question.
In the Question Text field, enter your arithmetic question text.Note: The character limit for the Question Text field is 512 characters.
To add an image to your arithmetic question, click Insert an Image and select the image you want to add and enter a description for the image.
To enable users to add attachments to support their answers, select the Allow attachments to support answers.
Enter your  Formula using the following supported operations, functions, and constants:A list of Enumerations and Descriptions to be used in the Formula field.EnumerationsDescription  +,-,*,/,\,^Basic mathematical operators%Modulo (remainder) operator{x}^{y}x to the power of yabs({n})Absolute value of ncos({n})The cosine of n (in radians)sin({n})The sine of n (in radians)sqr({n})The square root of ntan({n})The tangent of n (in radians)log({n})The log base 10 of nln({n})The log base e of natan({n})The inverse tangent of nsec({n})The secant of ncosec({n})The cosecant of ncotan({n})The cotangent of nFactorialFactorial of n, or (n!)expThe power of natural log (e) pi pi 3.14159 (accurate up to 50 decimal places) e e 2.71828 (accurate up to 50 decimal places)Note: To verify your formula before sharing it with learners, click Test.
From the Answer Precision drop-down menu, select the number of acceptable decimal places allowed in a response and select the enforce precision  to require correct answers to contain this specific number of decimal places.
Use Tolerance levels to accept near-accurate, estimated, or rounded answers.
To assess if answers include correct units of measurement, enter a unit type (mm, cm, grams, inches, etc.), and set one of the following Evaluation Options:
Case Insensitive - Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text with or without letter case correctness.Case Sensitive - Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text that must have letter case correctness.Regular Expression - Auto-grading uses meta-characters to search for one or more matching strings in the answer text's character pattern. What you set as meta-character parameters helps determine letter case sensitivity.

To assign a weighted points value to the measurement unit, from the Worth: drop-down menu, select a percentage.

In the Variables area, do the following:Create any variables you want to use with your question by giving the variable a Name, a minimum value in Min, and a maximum value in Max. Set the number of decimals to provide in the Decimal Places drop-down list. To set the system's incrementing steps as it generates numbers from the range set by the Min and Max fields, in the Step field, enter a number.
Enter a Question Hint and Question Feedback.
To verify your question, click Preview.
Click Save to create your arithmetic question.
Video: Create an Arithmetic Question

Create significant figures questions
Significant figures questions require respondents to answer in scientific notation and provide solutions that contain a specified number of significant figures. Math and science courses commonly use this question type. You can ensure each respondent receives a unique question by including variables enclosed with curly braces that randomly generate scientific notations within the problem.
To create significant figures question
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Significant Figures (x10).
In the Title field, enter an optional title for your question.
In the Points field, enter the number of points a learner will receive for answering the question correctly.
Set the Difficulty level for the question.
In the Question Text field, enter your arithmetic question text.
To add an image to your arithmetic question, click Insert an Image and select the image you want to add and enter a description for the image.           
To enable users to add attachments to support their answers, select Allow attachments to support answers.
Enter your arithmetic question Formula using the following supported operations, functions, and constants:A list of Enumerations and Descriptions to be used in the Formula field.EnumerationsDescription  +,-,*,/,\,^Basic mathematical operators%Modulo (remainder) operator{x}^{y}x to the power of yabs({n})Absolute value of ncos({n})The cosine of n (in radians)sin({n})The sine of n (in radians)sqr({n})The square root of ntan({n})The tangent of n (in radians)log({n})The log base 10 of nln({n})The log base e of natan({n})The inverse tangent of nsec({n})The secant of ncosec({n})The cosecant of ncotan({n})The cotangent of nFactorialFactorial of n, or (n!)expThe power of natural log (e) pi pi 3.14159 (accurate up to 50 decimal places) e e 2.71828 (accurate up to 50 decimal places)Note: To verify your formula before sharing it with users, click Test.
From the Significant Figures drop-down menu, select the number of significant figures the response should contain.
From the Deduct drop-down menu, select the percentage of the answer's score to deduct for including incorrect significant figures in a response.
Use Tolerance levels to accept near-accurate, estimated, or rounded answers.        
To assess if answers include correct units of measurement, enter a unit type (mm, cm, grams, inches, etc.), and set one of the following Evaluation Options:
Case Insensitive: Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text with or without letter case correctness.Case Sensitive: Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text that must have letter case correctness.Regular Expression: Auto-grading uses meta-characters to search for one or more matching strings in the answer text's character pattern. What you set as meta-character parameters helps determine letter case sensitivity.
In the Variables area, do the following:Create any variables you want to use with your question by giving the variable a Name, a minimum value in the Min field, and a maximum value in the Max field. To set the system's incrementing steps as it generates numbers from the range set by the Min and Max fields, enter a number in the Step field. 
To verify your question, click Preview. 
Click Save to create your significant figures question.
Video: Create Significant Figures Questions

Understanding arithmetic and significant figures question components
In arithmetic questions, use answer precision to limit the number of acceptable decimal places allowed in a response. You can require that correct answers contain a specific number of decimal places.
In significant figure questions, you can select a percentage of the answer's score to deduct for including incorrect significant figures in a response.
Use tolerance levels to accept near-accurate, estimated, or rounded answers. 
When rounding, Brightspace automatically applies the Round to Half Even rounding rule when assessing answers that contain decimal places that end with "5". Currently, there are no options to change rounding rules. Applying the Round to Half Even rule, answers with decimal places that end with "5" will round down instead of round up. 
Example One: 3.41 * 25 = 85.25 
If you create an arithmetic question and set the Answer Precision to 1, the correct answer using Round to Half Even is 85.2.
Example Two: -3.41* 25 = -85.25
If you create an arithmetic question and set the Answer Precision to 1, the correct answer using Round to Half Even is -85.2.
You can enter a unit type (mm, cm, grams, inches, etc.) to assess if answers include correct units of measurement. For significant figures questions, you can select a percentage to assign a weighted points value to the measurement unit. If you use units in your question, you can set the following Evaluation options:
Case Insensitive - Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text with or without letter case correctness.
Case Sensitive - Auto-grading searches for a matching character pattern in the answer text that must have letter case correctness.
Regular Expression - Auto-grading uses meta-characters to search for one or more matching strings in the answer text's character pattern. What you set as meta-character parameters helps determine letter case sensitivity. 
Create Likert questions
Create Likert (LIK) questions to measure subjective information such as personal opinions, knowledge, abilities, and attitudes. Likert questions enable you to create surveys that evaluate the intensity of respondents' feelings towards statements presented to them.
Note:Similar to self assessments, all question types you import into Surveys automatically omit point value and difficulty level indicators.
To create Likert questions
Navigate to Quizzes, Surveys, or  Self Assessments.
Click the Question Library tab.
Click the New drop-down menu, select Likert Question (LIK).
In the General area, enter your Likert question details. 
In the Questions area, do the following:Select the Scale you want the question to use:One to Five (1 - 5)One to Eight (1 - 8)One to Ten (1 - 10)Agreement Scale (Disagree–Agree)Satisfaction Scale (Dissatisfied–Satisfied)Frequency Scale (Never–Always)Importance Scale (Unimportant–Important)Opposition Scale (Oppose–Support)To give users the option to select not applicable, select Include an N/A option.In each Value field, enter a statement. To include additional statements, click Add Option.Figure: Set up your Likert question in the Questions area.
To verify your question, click Preview. 
Click Save to create your Likert question.
Understanding regular expressions
Regular expressions give users grading certain question types the ability to evaluate responses against a set of acceptable values. A regular expression uses alpha-numeric and meta-characters to create a pattern that describes one or more strings that must be identically matched within a body of text.
You can use regular expressions in short answer, multi-short answer, arithmetic, significant figures, and fill in the blanks questions.
For example, the fill in the blank question "What word describes red, blue, green, yellow, pink, etc." can use regular expressions for the answer "colou?r*"
Characters used in regular expressions
A list of Characters, Descriptions, and Examples of Regular Expressions.

Character


Description


Example


\


Marks the next character as a special character, a literal, a back-reference, or an octal escape.


The sequence \\ matches \ and \( matches (
n matches the character n
\n matches a new-line character


^


Matches the position at the beginning of the input string. If the RegExp object’s Multi-line property is set, ^ also matches the position following '\n' or '\r'.


^cat matches strings that begin with cat


$


Matches the position at the end of the input string. If the RegExp object’s Multi-line property is set, $ also matches the position preceding '\n' or '\r'.


cat$ matches any string that ends with cat


*


Matches the preceding character or sub-expression zero or more times.
* equals {0,}


be* matches b or be or beeeeeeeeee
zo* matches z and zoo


+


Matches the preceding character or sub-expression one or more times.
+ equals {1,}.


be+ matches be or bee but not b


?


Matches the preceding character or sub-expression zero or one time.
? equals {0,1}


abc? matches ab or abc
colou?r matches color or colour but not colouur
do(es)? matches the do in do or does


 


When this character immediately follows any of the other quantifiers (*, +, ?, {n}, {n,}, {n,m}), the matching pattern is non-greedy. A non-greedy pattern matches as little of the searched string as possible, whereas the default greedy pattern matches as much of the searched string as possible.


In the string oooo, o+? matches a single o, while o+ matches all os


()


Parentheses create a sub-string or item that you can apply meta-characters to.


a(bee)?t matches at or abeet but not abet


{n,}


n is a non-negative integer. Matches at least n times.


[0-9]{3,} matches any three digits
o{2,} does not match the o in Bob, but matches the two os in food
b{4,} matches bbbb


{n}


n is a non-negative integer. Matches exactly n times.


[0-9]{3} matches any three or more digits
o{2} does not match the o in Bob and matches all the os in foooood
o{1} is equivalent to o+ 
o{0} is equivalent to o*


{n,m}


m and n are non-negative integers, where n <= m. Matches at least n and at most m times.
Note: You cannot put a space between the comma and the numbers.


[0-9]{3,5} matches any three, four, or five digits
o{1,3} matches the first three os in fooooood
o{0,1} is equivalent to o?
c{2, 4} matches cc, ccc, cccc


.


Matches any single character except "\n".
To match any character including the '\n', use a pattern such as '[\s\S]'.


cat. matches catT and cat2


(pattern)


Matches pattern and captures the match. The captured match can be retrieved from the resulting Matches collection, using the SubMatches collection in VBScript or the $0$9 properties in JScript.
To match parentheses characters ( ), use '\(' or '\)'.


(jam){2} matches jamjam
First group matches jam


(?:pattern)


Matches pattern but does not capture the match, that is, it is a non-capturing match that is not stored for possible later use.
This is useful for combining parts of a pattern with the "or" character (|).


industr(?:y|ies) is a more economical expression than industry|industries


(?=pattern)


Positive lookahead matches the search string at any point where a string matching pattern begins. This is a non-capturing match, that is, the match is not captured for possible later use.
Lookaheads do not consume characters: after a match occurs, the search for the next match begins immediately following the last match, not after the characters that comprised the lookahead.


Windows (?=95|98|NT|2000) matches Windows in Windows 2000 but not Windows in Windows 3.1


(?!pattern)


Negative lookahead matches the search string at any point where a string not matching pattern begins. This is a non-capturing match, that is, the match is not captured for possible later use.
Lookaheads do not consume characters, that is, after a match occurs, the search for the next match begins immediately following the last match, not after the characters that comprised the lookahead.


Windows (?!95|98|NT|2000) matches Windows in Windows 3.1 but does not match Windows in Windows 2000


x|y


Matches x or y.


July (first|1st|1) matches July 1st but does not match July 2
z|food matches z or food
(z|f)ood matches zood or food


[xyz]


A character set. Matches any one of the enclosed characters.


gr[ae]y matches gray or grey
[abc] matches the a in plain


[^xyz]


A negative character set. Matches any character not enclosed.


1[^02] matches 13 or 11 but not 10 or 12
[^abc] matches every letter except a in plain


[a-z]


A range of characters. Matches any character in the specified range.


[1-9] matches any single digit except 0
[a-z] matches any lowercase alphabetic character in the range a through z


[^a-z]


A negative range of characters.
Matches any character not in the specified range.


[^a-z] matches any character not in the range a through z


\b


Matches a word boundary: the position between a word and a space.


er\b matches the er in never but not the er in verb


\B


Matches a non-word boundary.


er\B matches the er in verb but not the er in never


\cx


Matches the control character indicated by x.
The value of x must be in the range of A-Z or a-z.
If not, c is assumed to be a literal 'c' character.


\cM matches a Control-M or carriage return character


\d


Matches a digit character.
Equivalent to [0-9]


 


\D


Matches a non-digit character
Equivalent to [^0-9]


 


\f


Matches a form-feed character.
Equivalent to \x0c and \cL


 


\n


Matches a new-line character.
Equivalent to \x0a and \cJ


 


\r


Matches a carriage return character.
Equivalent to \x0d and \cM


 


\s


Matches any white space character including space, tab, form-feed, etc.
Equivalent to [\f\n\r\t\v]


Can be combined in the same way as [\d\s], which matches a character that is a digit or whitespace


\S


Matches any non-white space character.
Equivalent to [^\f\n\r\t\v]


 


\t


Matches a tab character.
Equivalent to \x09 and \cI


 


\v


Matches a vertical tab character.
Equivalent to \x0b and \cK


 


\w


Matches any word character including underscore.
Equivalent to '[A-Za-z0-9_]'


 


\W


Matches any non-word character.
Equivalent to '[^A-Za-z0-9_]'
You should only use \D, \W and \S outside character classes.


 


\Z


Matches the end of the string the regular expression is applied to. Matches a position, but never matches before line breaks.


.\Z matches k in jol\hok


\xn


Matches n, where n is a hexadecimal escape value.
Hexadecimal escape values must be exactly two digits long.
Allows ASCII codes to be used in regular expressions.


\x41 matches A
\x041 is equivalent to \x04 and 1


\num


Matches num, where num is a positive integer.
A reference back to captured matches.


(.)\1 matches two consecutive identical characters


\n


Identifies either an octal escape value or a back-reference.
If \n is preceded by at least n captured sub-expressions, n is a back-reference.
Otherwise, n is an octal escape value if n is an octal digit (0-7).


\11 and \011 both match a tab character
\0011 is the equivalent of 1


\nm


Identifies either an octal escape value or a back-reference.
If \nm is preceded by at least nm captured sub-expressions, nm is a back-reference.
If \nm is preceded by at least n captures, n is a back-reference followed by literal m.
If neither of the preceding conditions exists, \nm matches octal escape value nm when n and m are octal digits (0-7).


 


\nml


Matches octal escape value nml when n is an octal digit (0-3) and m and l are octal digits (0-7).


 


\un


Matches n, where n is a Unicode character expressed as four hexadecimal digits.


For example, \u00A9 matches the copyright symbol (©)

Video: Create a Question Using a Regular Expression




--------------------------------------------------


Managing questions in Question Library

Create sections in Question Library
You can create sections to organize your questions into folders while inside Question Library. 
You can also import sections from Question Library directly into a quiz, survey, or self assessment. Importing sections from Question Library will transfer section folders and all of their associated properties (section name, messages, images, or feedback).
Although you can create subsections within sections, D2L recommends you keep question organization simple and intuitive.
To create sections in Question Library
Navigate to Question Library.
Click New > Section.

Figure: The New drop-down list showing the Section option.
Enter a Section Title.
To hide the section title from learners, select the Hide Section Title from students check box.
Enter the Section Text.
To hide the section text from learners, select the Hide Section Text from students check box.
To shuffle questions within this section, select the Shuffle questions in this section check box.
Click Save or from the Save drop-down menu click either Save and New or Save and Copy.

Figure: The Section creation page.
Video: Create a New Section

Create sections outside Question Library
You can create sections to organize your questions into folders while creating a quiz, survey, or self assessment. The folders you create will reside directly within the assessment tool you create them in, not in the main Question Library.
On the Edit [Quiz/Survey/Self Assessment] page, click Add/Edit Questions.
From the New drop-down menu, click Section.
Enter a Section Title.
To hide the section title from learners, select the Hide Section Title from students check box.
Enter the Section Text.
To hide the section text from learners, select the Hide Section Text from students check box.
To shuffle questions within this section, select the Shuffle questions in this section check box.
Click Save or from the Save drop-down menu click either Save and New or Save and Copy.
Edit a question or section in Question Library
In Question Library, from the context menu of the question or section you want to edit, click Edit.
Make your changes and click Save.
Preview questions in Question Library
Use the preview page to view the appearance of an individual question, as well as the comments and hints included with the question. If the question appears in more than one place, the preview page lists the other places the question appears (for example, in the Quizzes, Surveys, and Self Assessments tools).
Do one of the following:In Question Library, from the context menu of the question you want to preview, click Preview.On the Edit Question page for the question you want to preview, click Preview.
Click Done.
Reorder questions or sections in Question Library
In Question Library, click Order.
On the Order page, select the check box for any question or section you want to move.
Click the Move Up or Move Down icons.
Publish questions and sections to a learning repository
Navigate to Question Library.
In Question Library, select the check box for any question or section you want to publish to a learning repository, and then click  Publish to LOR.

Figure: The Publish to LOR option in Question Library.
Do one of the following:From the Pick a Repository drop-down list, select the repository you want to publish to.To overwrite existing content, select Overwrite an existing object. To locate the learning object that you want to overwrite, click Search. Select the learning object, then click Select. 

Figure: The Pick a Repository and Overwrite an existing object options.
In the Sharing and Publishing Options area, do any of the following:If you want to leave the page while the system publishes, select Publish in the background. You can check the publishing job's status later. If you do not want the object to be visible or publicly available, select Hide learning object in search results. Only users with the correct permissions can view hidden learning objects.To associate Creative Commons rights with the learning object, select Creative Commons licensed. Creative Commons licensing enables you to retain copyright on your work while allowing different degrees of reuse to other users.

Figure: The Sharing and Publishing Options area.
In the Learning Objects to Publish area, clear the check box for any question or section you do not want to publish with the package. 
Click Next.
On the Publish page, in the Metadata area, enter your metadata details.
Click Publish to LOR. 
Access the Browse Question Library window
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click New Quiz to create a new quiz, or click a quiz name to edit a preexisting quiz.
Click Add Existing > Browse Question Library.

Figure: The Add Existing drop-down list showing the Browse Question Library option.
Note: Click Source Collection to modify the source collection, click Filter to filter by question type, and click Sort to reorder the questions by question type, points value, or alphabetically by text or title.
Add Questions from the Browse Question Library window
Navigate to Quizzes.
Click New Quiz to create a new quiz, or click a quiz name to edit a pre-existing quiz.
Enter a name for the quiz. 
Click Add Existing > Browse Question Library.

Figure: The Add Existing drop-down list showing the Browse Question Library option.
				To search in the Question Library, enter a keyword in the Search question text field.
To search in any other quiz in the course, from the Source drop-down menu, select the quiz.Note: You can filter the search results by question type and sort the search results by question type and points or alphabetically by title or text.
Select the question(s) you want to add and do one of the following:
Click Import to automatically add the questions to the end of the quiz. 
Click the Import drop-down menu to select the section of the quiz to add questions. You can select Import to Top of the Quiz, Import to bottom of the Quiz, or Import to Section > [Section name]. 

Figure: The Browse Question Library dialog.
Click Done Editing Questions.
Click Done Editing Questions.




--------------------------------------------------


Quizzes and Question Library

Considerations around quizzes with associations to Question Library

Situation


Considerations


Importing questions from Question Library into a quiz


When you import questions from Question Library into a quiz, you create a duplicate version of the questions. One version of the questions resides in the quiz and the original version resides in Question Library.


Deleting questions pulled from Question Library in a quiz


 If you want to delete only an imported quiz question, make the changes directly inside the quiz. Questions will not automatically delete from the Question Library when deleted from a quiz.
Before deleting a question from the Question Library, ensure you delete it from every quiz in which it resides. You will not see the Question in Use page when deleting questions.


Copying a quiz with Question Library associations to another org unit


When you copy a quiz from one org unit or course offering to another, the newly copied quiz will contain the original set of quiz questions and formatting. Any changes you make inside the quiz (for example, deleting a question) will only affect the quiz, not the original questions stored in Question Library.
D2L recommends that when copying a quiz with associations to the Question Library, you also copy the particular section of the Question Library that contain the quiz questions. Doing so ensures that all your questions remain in the same course and allows you to create new question pools or random sections in future quizzes with these questions.

Import questions from Question Library
You can import questions from the Question Library.
To add questions from Question Library
On the Create Quiz page, click Add Existing.
Select Browse Question Library.Note: If your quiz has more than 200 questions, sections, and question pools, use the  Load More button to check all questions and reveal the updated list.Figure: The Load More button.
To rearrange the question list, you can  select multiple items and drag and drop them within the question list.Figure: Multiple items selected for movement using drag and drop.
Click Import.




--------------------------------------------------


Delete and copy questions from Question Library in a quiz

Delete a question pulled from Question Library in a quiz
Navigate to Quizzes.
From the Actions menu of the quiz containing the questions you want to delete, click Edit.

Figure: The Actions menu for a quiz showing the Edit option.
From Questions, do one of the following:
To delete a Quiz Section, Question Pool, or individual question, select the check box beside the Quiz Section, Question Pool, or individual question you want to delete, then click More Actions > Delete.

Figure: The More Actions menu showing the Delete option.
To delete individual questions within a Question Pool, select the Question Pool, and click the X beside the quiz questions you want to delete.
Copy a quiz with Question Library associations to another org unit
In the course offering that you want to copy the quiz to, on the navbar, click Course Admin > Import/Export/Copy Components.
Select Copy Components from another Org Unit.
Click Search for offering.
Locate and select the course containing the quiz you want to copy.
Click Add Selected > Select Components.
Select Question Library and Quizzes, then do one of the following:To include all items, select Copy all items, then click Continue. To include only some items, select Select individual items to copy, then click Continue. On the Select Items to Copy page, select the items you want to copy. Click Continue.
Click Continue.
Click Finish.
Note: You can now import Quiz and Question banks created in the IMS QTI 2.1 standard.



--------------------------------------------------


Add existing activities with Google Drive

Elevate existing content or create new content by adding existing files from Google Drive to your Brightspace course.
Link your Google account to Brightspace
Linking your Google account to Brightspace enables you to import content from your Google account into your Brightspace course.
To link your Google account to Brightspace
You can link your Google account to Brightspace by performing any action that requires you to use your Google account. Each action prompts you to link your account if you have not done so already.
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.

Figure: Course homepage with Content highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, select the desired module and click Add Existing.

Figure: Table of Contents in Content with the Add Existing option highlighted.
On the What would you like to add? page, click Google Drive.

Figure: The What would you like to add? page with the Google Drive option highlighted.
Click Sign in to Google Workspace or Sign in to a Personal Account.

Figure: The Google Drive sign in prompt for both Google Workspace and a personal Google account.
Add existing files from Google Drive to Content
Add existing files from Google Drive to Content to include existing resources in your course.
To add existing files from Google Drive to Content
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.

Figure: Course homepage with Content highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, select the desired module and click Add Existing.

Figure: Table of Contents in Content with the Add Existing option highlighted.
On the What would you like to add? page, click Google Drive.

Figure: The What would you like to add? page with the Google Drive option highlighted.
In the Add Materials dialog, under Files, click the file you want to include and click Add.
Add existing files from Google Drive to Assignments
Add existing files from Google Drive to Assignments to include additional files like an assignment outline.
To add existing files from Google Drive to Assignments
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.

Figure: Course homepage with Content highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, select the desired module and click Create New.

Figure: Table of Contents in Content with the Create New option highlighted.
On the What would you like to create? page, click Assignment.

Figure: The What would you like to create? page with Assignment highlighted.
On the New Assignment page, click the Attach from Google Drive icon.

Figure: New Assignment page with the Attach from Google Drive icon highlighted.
In the Add Materials dialog, select the file you want to attach and click Add.
Toggle the assignment Visibility to either Hidden or Visible.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: The Save and Close and Visibility options.



--------------------------------------------------


Add existing activities with OneDrive

Elevate existing content or create new content by adding existing files from OneDrive to your Brightspace course.
Connect your OneDrive account to Brightspace
Linking your OneDrive account to Brightspace enables you to import content from OneDrive into your Brightspace course.
To connect your OneDrive account to Brightspace
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.

Figure: Course homepage with Content highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, select the desired module and click Add Existing.

Figure: Table of Contents with Add Existing highlighted.
On the What would you like to add? page, click OneDrive.

Figure: The What would you like to add? page with OneDrive highlighted.
A dialog box appears prompting you to log in to your OneDrive account. Click Continue to OneDrive and enter your account information to connect it to Brightspace.

Figure: Add Materials dialog prompting users to log in to OneDrive.
Add an existing activity to Content
Add existing files from OneDrive to Content to include existing resources in your course. 
To add a OneDrive file to Content
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.

Figure: Course homepage with Content highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, select the desired module and click Add Existing.

Figure: Table of Contents with Add Existing highlighted.
On the What would you like to add? page, click OneDrive.

Figure: The What would you like to add? page with OneDrive highlighted.
In the Add Materials dialog, select the file you want to add and click Select.
Add an existing activity to an assignment
Add existing files from OneDrive to Assignments to include additional files like an assignment outline.
To add a OneDrive file to Assignments
From your course homepage, navigate to Content.

Figure: Course homepage with Content highlighted.
In the Table of Contents, in any module, click Create New.

Figure: Table of Contents with Create New highlighted.
On the What would you like to create? page, click Assignment.

Figure: The What would you like to create? page with Assignment highlighted.
On the New Assignment page, click the Attach from OneDrive icon.

Figure: The New Assignment page with the Attach from OneDrive icon highlighted.
In the Add Materials dialog, click the file you want to add and then click Select.
Toggle the assignment Visibility to either Hidden or Visible.
Click Save and Close.

Figure: The Save and Close and Visibility options.



--------------------------------------------------


Using Virtual Classrooms and Video Assignments by Bongo

You can use the Virtual Classrooms  by Bongo integration to create a virtual classroom session or set up video meetings with learners. You can choose to save your sessions and post them within Brightspace as a resource. You can also use Video Assignments to create video assignments, allowing learners to respond to course materials, or do presentations remotely.
Depending on your organization, you might have access to Virtual Classrooms, Video Assignments, or both.
For more information about Bongo, refer to Bongo knowledge base and Brightspace IntegrationHub
Creating a virtual classroom session
For information on creating virtual classroom sessions, refer to the Schedule a Virtual Classroom Meeting support page.
For information on creating Breakout Rooms withing virtual classroom sessions, refer to the Instructors: Breakout Rooms support page. Note that this option is available for Premium users of Virtual Classrooms by Bongo. 
Create a quicklink to a virtual classroom session
On the course home page, click Content.
In the module or sub-module where you want to add the quicklink, from the Existing Activities button, select Virtual Classrooms.
Select the meeting that you want to add or click Create Meeting to schedule a new session.
Editing or canceling a virtual classroom session
For information on editing or canceling virtual classroom sessions, refer to the Schedule a Virtual Classroom Meeting support page
Creating Video Assignments
The standard integration with Video Assignments enables you to create Individual Project video assignments. For information on creating Individual Project video assignments, refer to the Set Up Individual Project support page. 
 If your organization has opted for Video Assignments Premium version, you can also choose Individual Project, Group Project, Question & Answer, and Interactive Video assignment types. 
For information on the video assignment types that may be available to you, refer to the following support pages:
Individual Project Overview
Question & Answer Overview
Interactive Video Overview
Group Project Overview
Create a quicklink to a video assignment
On the course homepage, click Content.
In the module or sub-module you want to add the quicklink to, from the Existing Activities button, select Video Assignments.
Select the video assignment that you want to add.
Click Create Link.
Editing a video assignment
For information on editing, copying, or deleting video assignments, refer to the Getting Started - Instructors support page.
Grading a video assignment
For information on grading video assignments, refer to the Grading Types support page. 
Grade syncing and grading options
Grade syncing is enabled in Brightspace and your grades from Bongo are delivered to your Learning Management System (LMS) grade book. 
The grading options are:
Grade Entry - This is a percentage grade. Use a value between 1-100 when entering a grade. The value you enter represents a percentage that is used to assign points in the LMS grade book based on the maximum points entered in the LMS. For example, if a learner receives a 90% grade, then enter 90, and if a learner receives a 75% grade, then enter 75.
Educator Ratings - This is a 5-star rating system and each star is worth 20 points. For example, if you give a learner 4 stars, then 80 points are delivered to the LMS grade book.
Pass/Fail and Completed/Not Completed - These grading options deliver a 0 or 100 grade to the LMS grade book.
For information on grading options in Video Assignments, refer to the Grading Types support page. 
Auto Analysis™ for Individual Assignments
If your organization offers the premium version of Video Assignments, you can use the Auto Analysis™ tool reports on learner submissions as part of your evaluation. For more information, refer to the Auto Analysis™ Overview support page. 



--------------------------------------------------


About Release Conditions

Release conditions allow you to create a custom learning path through the materials in your course. When you attach a release condition to an item, learners cannot see that item until they meet the associated condition. For example, you could attach a release condition to the second topic in your course’s content area that would hide that topic until learners viewed the topic before it. Or you could create a condition that required learners to view a content topic before gaining access to a quiz, or one that required them to post to a discussion topic before they could see a content module.
If you attach multiple conditions to an item, learners must meet all conditions before they can access the item. For example, you could require learners to visit the first three content topics in a unit before gaining access to an associated quiz.
Note: Once a learner meets a release condition, the condition is cleared for that learner and cannot be reset. For example, if you attach a release condition to a discussion topic requiring learners to achieve more than 60% on a quiz before they can access that topic, and one of your participaInts receives 72% on the quiz but you adjust their grade to 55%, they will be able to access the topic because they did meet the requirement at some point.
Requirements
To see and use release conditions, you must have the required permissions in the associated tools applied to your role. These permissions can only be accessed by your organization administrator. Contact your administrator if you do not have the required permissions.
Tools that support release conditions
You can access release conditions for any of the following course items:
Awards
Checklist
Content modules and topics
Custom widgets
Discussion forums and topics
Assignments
Grade items and categories
Intelligent Agents
Announcements items
Quizzes
Surveys
Best practices for creating release conditions
The following are the best practices for setting up release conditions:
Set up conditions before learners access the course: Create all of your course materials and set up your release conditions before the course opens to learners. This gives you a chance to check for mistakes in the conditions or for circular, contradictory, or unnecessary conditions. If you add new release conditions after learners have accessed the course, learners might be confused by resources disappearing. Since conditions cannot be reset, you also risk having learners meet conditions before your resources are ready (for example, accessing a content topic before it is finished).
Avoid unnecessary conditions: Each condition you associate with a tool takes additional time for Brightspace to process. Using as few conditions as possible to set up a learning path minimizes the amount of time that learners spend waiting for pages to load. For example, you set up a content topic, a quiz, and an assignment  for the second week of class. You want learners to read the topic before taking the quiz, and you want them to read the topic and attempt the quiz before submitting the week’s work to the assignment. For the assignment, you only need to attach the condition that learners attempt the quiz. Since learners must read the content topic before they can take the quiz, it is not necessary to add this condition to the assignment.
Avoid circular references: A circular reference makes it impossible for learners to satisfy a set of conditions. For example, if you set the condition that learners must view a content topic before they can access an assignment, and then set a condition that they must submit a file to the assignment before they can access the content topic, you have a circular reference. Learners can’t satisfy either condition without satisfying the other one first. Circular references are more likely to occur with long chains of conditions. For example, a content topic that depends on a quiz that depends on an assignment  that depends on a checklist that depends on the content topic.
Avoid impossible conditions: Ensure that your conditions are not impossible for learners to satisfy. For example, a condition that learners must achieve greater than 100% on a grade item would be impossible (unless the grade item is set to Can Exceed). If learners are unable to satisfy a condition, they are unable to access the content or tools to which the condition is attached.
Avoid contradictory conditions: Contradictory conditions occur when two or more conditions that cancel each other out are associated with an item. For example, the conditions User must achieve greater than 49.9% on Grade Item 1 and User must achieve less than 50% on Grade Item 1 are contradictory. Learners cannot satisfy both conditions at the same time; they would not be able to see the item associated with these conditions.
Release content based on learning ability and course performance: Include additional content in your course specifically for learners who need extra help and release this content to learners who score below a specified threshold on a quiz or grade item. Alternately, release a special survey to learners who attain a high score.
Release content in stages: To reveal content topics to learners only after they have read prior content, attach release conditions on the subsequent topics or modules that require learners to view earlier topics. This can provide a clear path through the material and prevent learners from becoming overwhelmed by a large table of contents at the start of the course.
Release content based on enrollment date: If your course has rolling enrollment, you can set course materials and assessments to become available relative to learners' enrollment date. This allows you to provide a structured path through the course for every learner regardless of their enrollment date. For learners who have been enrolled more than once in the course, you can choose whether you use the first time or the last time they were enrolled.
Customize content for groups within a course: If your course has group projects and you want to provide different instructions or resources for each group, you can create separate content topics or modules for each project and attach release conditions based on group enrollment. Group members working on one project will see content related to their work without being distracted by content not relevant to them.
Use a checklist to organize activities: You can create a checklist that lists the activities learners should complete throughout the course. For example, a checklist for the first week might include reading the course’s introductory content, posting to an introductory discussion topic, and submitting a list of learning goals for an assignment. You can set release conditions based on learners checking off items from their checklist. For example, you might release an Announcements item on your course’s homepage once learners check off that they have completed the first week’s activities.
Use intelligent agents to monitor learner activity or non-activity: You can set up intelligent agents with release conditions using the not operator to intervene with learners who have not completed course work. For example, create an intelligent agent that sends a reminder email to learners who have not yet completed a quiz attempt or submitted an assignment to an assignment. 
Release condition types

Condition Type


Description


Awards - Awards


The learner must have earned a specific award in order to fulfill the release condition


Checklist - Completed checklist 


The learner must complete all items on the selected checklist in order to fulfill the release condition


Checklist - Incomplete checklist


The learner must not complete one or more items on the selected checklist in order to fulfill the release condition


Checklist - Completed checklist item


The learner must complete a specific item on the selected checklist in order to fulfill the release condition


Checklist - Incomplete checklist item


The learner must not complete the specific item on the selected checklist to fulfill the release condition 


Classlist - Group enrollment


The learner must be enrolled in a specific group in order to fulfill the release condition


Classlist - Org unit enrollment


The learner must be enrolled in a specific org unit in order to fulfill the release condition


Classlist - Section enrollment


The learner must be enrolled in a specific section in order to fulfill the release condition


Classlist - Role in current org unit


The learner must either:
be enrolled as a specific role
not be enrolled as a specific role
in order to fulfill the release condition


Classlist - Date of enrollment in current org unit


The learner must be enrolled in the current org unit for a specified number of days in order to fulfill the release condition. The release condition includes the following options:

Use first enrollment date


Use last enrollment date



Competencies - Competency achieved


The learner must complete a specific competency in order to fulfill the release condition


Competencies - Competency not yet achieved


The learner must not complete a specific competency in order to fulfill the release condition


Competencies - Learning objective achieved


The learner must complete a specific learning objective in order to fulfill the release condition


Competencies - Learning objective not yet achieved


The learner must not complete a specific learning objective in order to fulfill the release conditions


Competencies - Score on associated rubric


The learner must achieve a specified Score and Threshold level on a learning objective, based on an associated rubric, in order to fulfill the release condition


Content - visited content topic


The learner must visit a specific content topic in order to fulfill the release condition


Content - Not visited content topic


The learner must not visit the specified content topic in order to fulfill the release condition. Depending on your organization's security configurations, especially if the d2l.Tools.ManageFiles.UseContentRestrictedSecurity configuration variable is set to ON, learners may not be able to access specified content topics at all when this release condition is set


Content - Visited all content topics


The learner must visit all content topics in the course offering in order to fulfill the release condition

Content - Completed content topic

The learner completes a content topic. The method of completing the topic depends on the type, such as viewing a file or submitting an assignment.
This release condition ignores exemptions, meaning that if the learner completes the activity, the release condition can be met, regardless of the activity being required, optional, or exempt.


Discussions - Posts authored in topic


The learner must author a specified number and type of posts in a designated forum or topic to fulfill the release condition. This can specify either No Threads, No Replies, or No Threads or Replies.


Discussions - No posts authored in topic


The learner must not author any number or type of post in a designated forum or topic to fulfill the release condition. This can specify either No Threads, No Replies, or No Threads or Replies.


Discussions - Score on associated rubric


The learner must achieve a specified Score and Threshold level on a discussion forum or topic, based on an associated rubric, in order to fulfill the release condition


Assignments - Submission to Assignment


The learner must make a submission to a specified assignment  in order to fulfill the release condition


Assignments - No submission to Assignment 


The learner must not make a submission to a specified assignment  in order to fulfill the release condition


Assignments - Receive feedback on Assignment submission


The learner must receive feedback on a submission to a specified assignment  in order to fulfill the release condition


Assignments - Score on associated rubric


The learner must achieve a specified Score and Threshold level on an assignment  submission, based on an associated rubric, in order to fulfill the release condition


Grades - Grade value on a grade item


The learner must achieve a specified grade value on a grade item in order to fulfill the release condition


Grades - No grade received


The learner must not receive a specified grade value on a grade item in order to fulfill the release condition

Grades - Released final grade score

The learner must have their final grade score set to released, or set to released plus the final grade meeting a defined threshold, in order to fulfill the release condition. 
Note: This release condition is evaluated beginning from the first time the grade is released, and cannot be revoked once it is fulfilled. Therefore, if your grade book is set up to release final grades throughout a course, and/or drop ungraded items, the release condition may be fulfilled sooner than expected (i.e. before the end of the course). D2L recommends using this release condition in combination with other release conditions or intelligent agents to ensure that the event or content triggered by the released final grade score occurs at the anticipated time. 


Grades - Score on associated rubric


The learner must achieve a specified Score and Threshold level on a grade item, based on an associated rubric, in order to fulfill the release condition


Quizzes - Score on a quiz


The learner must achieve a specified score on a quiz in order to fulfill the release condition. Score on a quiz is triggered by publishing a score on a quiz attempt or manually overriding a quiz score via Grades. 


Quizzes - Completed quiz attempt


The learner must achieve a specified number of attempts of a quiz in order to fulfill the release condition


Quizzes - Score on selected questions


When a quiz has a learning objective with associated questions and an assessment method attached to it, the learner must achieve a specified grade value on the learning objective in order to fulfill the release condition


Quizzes - Score on associated rubric


The learner must achieve a specified Score and Threshold level on a quiz, based on an associated rubric, in order to fulfill the release condition


Quizzes - No completed quiz attempt


The learner must not complete any attempt on a quiz in order to fulfill the release condition


Surveys - Completed survey attempt


The learner must achieve a specified number of attempts of a survey in order to fulfill the release condition


Surveys - No completed survey attempt


The learner must not complete any attempt on a survey in order to fulfill the release condition





--------------------------------------------------


Attach Release Conditions

Navigate to the course item you want to add release conditions to.
From the context menu of the course item, click  Edit [course item].
Do any of the following:To access release conditions for a discussion forum or topic, checklist, assignment, grade item, quiz, or survey, click the Restrictions tab.To access release conditions for a custom widget, click the Release Conditions tab.To access release conditions for an Announcements item, scroll to the Additional Release Conditions area.To access release conditions for content topics in the New Content Experience (Lessons), click Options (...) >  View Release Conditions. 
Video: Attach a release condition

Video: Attach a release condition to course content




--------------------------------------------------


About Game Based Learning (GBL)

Game Based Learning (GBL) is the use of games to enhance the learning experience.
Incorporating game based mechanics, visual design, and thinking into a course can help organizations improve learner motivation and engagement. Learners who are engaged are more inspired to succeed.
A highly interactive gaming experience is something that many learners are already comfortable with. They can proceed at their own pace and get immediate feedback about their progress.
In a game based environment, learners work towards a set goal. A risk-free setting encourages experimentation by letting them choose their own actions. They can even repeat a step if they need to.
Instructors can determine the scope and depth of the gaming experience, implementing game based learning that fits unique needs and objectives.
In the spirit of gaming, learners can personalize their learning experience by creating their own unique character (an avatar) using the Create Avatar process. The avatar is visible when learners access the Game Map.
Designing a Game Based Learning module
To motivate and engage learners, D2L recommends considering the four stages of course gamification when designing your Game Based Learning module:
Stage one: know your learners. To make sure your gamified course meets your learners’ needs, first analyze their player types.
Stage two: design a game plan. Consider how your mechanics will work and how often learners will encounter them.
Stage three: create gamified content. Be creative and put your mechanics to work.
Stage four: play the game. It takes time and even a little trial and error to create a great gamified experience, but these four simple steps are fundamental guidelines towards which all gamification effort should be built.




--------------------------------------------------


Create and manage Game Maps

Add the Game Based Learning link to a Navbar
Add the Game Based Learning link to your navbar for quick access to the tool for yourself and other users.
To add the Game Based Learning link to a navbar
Open the Admin Tools menu, and select Navigation & Themes.
Click the name of the navbar you want to update.
On the Edit Navbar page, click Add Links.Figure: The Add Links option on the Edit Navbar page.
Locate the Game Based Learning link, select the corresponding check box, and click Add.Figure: The Add Links dialog showing the Game Based Learning tool.
Click Save and Close.
Note: If Game Based Learning is enabled for your course/organization, a link to Game Based Learning is available on your course's Course Admin page.
Create a Game Map
You can provide game based learning for your students by creating a game map with defined nodes to signify progress through the map.
To create a game map
On your course navbar or from Course Admin, click Game Based Learning.
Click New Game Map, enter a Map Name and Map Description, and click Next.
Do one of the following:Select a background from the available options.Click Upload Image, and then click Next.
Select from the available brushes, and click on the map background to place items on the map.
Once all tiles are added, click Next.
Select from the available objects, and click on the map background to place them on the map.
Once all objects are added, click Next.
Locate the Start  and Finish   nodes on either side of the map.
Drag and drop the nodes to place them in their desired positions.
Click Start, then click Edit   to edit the activity and add a Name and Description.
Click Add   to add a new activity node.
Click an activity node’s Edit   option to link to an activity (quiz or assignment), select a file, or create a file.
Drag and drop the Branch   from one node to another to create a branching path. This gives learners more than one route through the activities to complete the Game Map.
Use Delete   to remove unwanted nodes or connections between nodes.
Use Branch   to connect the final activities to the Finish   node.
Once you have created all nodes and connections, and linked each node with an activity or file, click Next.
Any nodes that do not have associated activities, or do not include a name they are listed above the map for the instructor to correct before continuing.
Preview the Game Map to ensure the nodes and activities are linked properly and click Save.
Note: D2L recommends creating content items, assignments, and quizzes prior to starting the Game Map creation process.
Add a Game Map to Content
Navigate to Content, open or add a module and click Existing Activities.
Click Game Map, and select the game map you want to add.
Create a Game Map in Content
Navigate to Content, open or add a module and click Upload / Create.
Click New Game Map, and follow the Game Map creation process.
Copy Game Maps between courses
Navigate to the course you want to copy a game map into.
Open the Admin Tools menu, and select Import / Export / Copy Components.
Select the radio button for Copy Components from another Org Unit and click Search for offering.
Search for a course that includes game maps you want to copy into your course.
Select the radio button next to the Offering Code, and click Add Selected.
Click Select Components, and on the Choose Components to Copy page, select the Game Based Learning checkbox.
Use the radio buttons to choose Select individual items to copy, and click Continue.
Check the box beside any of the game maps you want to copy, and click Continue.
If required, use the Offset Dates feature to offset the dates of copied components.
Click Finish.
Note: Importing and Exporting Game Maps is not supported at this time.
Track learner progress in Game Maps
The Map Progress page table displays the names of the learners on your classlist, the number of activities each learner has completed for a specific map, and if the map has been completed by the learner.
To view map progress:
On your course navbar, click Game Based Learning.
Below the game map you want to examine, click Map Progress.

Figure: Map Progress in Game Based Learning.



--------------------------------------------------


Upload, edit, and play audio-video content with Media Player

Brightspace Media Player is a display window that enables you to watch any videos uploaded to Brightspace. It allows you to play video, adjust playback speed, and download videos. 
Note: Embedded videos such as YouTube do not use Brightspace Media Player.
Audio-Video file types supported in Brightspace
The following file types are supported in Brightspace:
Uploaded Video Files
.mp4, .avi, .f4v, .flv, .m4v, .mov, .webm, .wmv, and the ability to optimize for streaming (2GB max and up to 720p output) 
Uploaded Audio Files
.mp3, .m4a, .ogg, .wav, .wma (1GB max) 
Notes:
Brightspace supports these file types but prefers .mp4 and .mp3.
If problems are discovered while playing a video after upload, try using the <Optimize for Streaming> option in the Media Library’s edit suite. This option optimizes the file for Brightspace and resolves most playback issues.
Upload audio-video content
You must upload all audio-video content into  Brightspace before you can view it in Media Player. There are various methods available to upload audio-video content.  
Uploaded audio and video files are transcoded as follows:
MP3 and MP4 video files are saved in their original form because they can play in a browser without transcoding. 
WMV and AVI are automatically transcoded on upload as they will not play by default.
Note: When uploading content, the media file is unavailable while processing (transcoding, creating thumbnails, auto-generating captions). However, you can navigate away from the upload page to work on other tasks. If another user attempts to access the media file in the topic before processing is complete, a message prompts them to wait for the media file to become available. When processing is complete (or the uploaded media file is invalid or corrupted), a notification displays from Update alerts in the navbar, with a link to the organization homepage.  Depending on the file format of audio and video files, they might not play in a web browser by default. The Optimize for Streaming option in the editing tool enables users who want to manually transcode original versions of the files, for example, to reduce the file size or enable multi-bitrate streaming.
To upload audio-video content in the New Content experience (Lessons)
Navigate to Content.
Select a unit and click Add Existing. The What would you like to add? page opens. 
 Do one of the following:Drag and drop the media file onto the dialog box. Click browse to select a file from your computer. The upload process begins.Figure: Drag and drop a file or click browse.
When the upload is complete, a topic is automatically created for the media file. 
To upload audio-video content in the Classic Content experience
Navigate to Content.
Select a module and click Upload/Create > Video or Audio. The Add Video or Audio dialog opens.
Do one of the following:To embed a web video, click the Web Video or Audio tab and enter a URL or embed code.Figure: Enter a URL or embed code in the Web Video or Audio tab.To upload a video file, click the Upload tab and do one of the following:Figure: Drag and drop a file or browse in the Upload tab.Drag and drop the file.Click Browse... to upload.
When the upload is complete, click Save. 
A new audio-video topic is added to your selected module.
Edit video content
You can edit video content to change the title, change to another video file, adjust the default playback speed of the video, and change the source URL or embed code of web video or audio.
Note: This topic explains editing  video files uploaded from the Classic Content Experience and New Content Experience (Lessons).  D2L recommends using the desktop experience when editing video. 
Depending on the file format of audio and video files, they might not play in a web browser by default. All uploaded audio and video files are transcoded only when necessary. All MP3 and MP4 video files are saved in their original form because they can play in a browser without transcoding. Other files, such as WMV and AVI, which would not play by default, continue to be automatically transcoded on upload. The Optimize for Streaming option in the editing tool enables users who want to manually transcode original versions of the files, for example, to enable multi-bitrate streaming.
Important: You can only edit a video if you are the owner of the video file.  Contact your administrator for more information about transferring ownership.
To edit video content in the Classic Content experience
Locate and open a video.
Under the video, click Edit Video. The Update Video or Audio dialog opens.Figure: The Update Video or Audio dialog appears after clicking Edit Video.
From the Upload tab, do any of the following:Edit the Title of your video.Click Change File to browse your computer and upload a new video to replace the existing video.Select Notify students that the content has changed if desired.Click Advanced Editing for more editing options. Refer to the Use Advanced Editing to edit audio-video content heading for more details.
If you are using a web video, from the Web Video or Audio tab, do any of the following:Enter an updated URL or Embed Code. Click Preview to review the updated video.
Click Update to save changes.
You have edited and saved your video using Media Player in the Classic Content Experience.
To edit video content from the New Content experience (Lessons)
From Content, navigate to a module containing a video.
Click the video to open it.
Click Options (...) > Edit. Figure: Click Options and then click Edit.Figure: Update your video on the editing page.
Customize the following options:Edit the Name of the video.Set a Due Date for the video.Under Availability & Dates, set a Start Date and End Date for the availability of the video.Click to toggle the video as Visible or Hidden.Click the Settings icon (gear) to set the default playback speed for the video.Click Advanced Editing for more editing options. Refer to the Use Advanced Editing to edit video content topic for more details.
Click Save and Close.
You have edited and saved your video using Media Player in the New Content Experience (Lessons).
Use Advanced Editing to edit audio-video content
You can also access Advanced Editing options when editing your audio-video content. You can access Advanced Editing from either the Classic Content or New Content (Lessons) experience.
To edit your content with Advanced Editing
From the Update Video or Audio dialog in the Classic Content Experience or Edit page in New Content (Lessons) Experience, click Advanced Editing.Figure: Click Advanced Editing in Classic Content.Figure: Click Advanced Editing in the New Content experience (Lessons).
From the Advanced Editing dialog, customize any of the following:Figure: Customize your video in the Advanced Editing dialog.To optimize the video quality for streaming, click Optimize for Streaming.Under the Table of Contents tab, enter a Chapter title and click + to add it. Figure: Add chapter titles to your video in the Table of Contents tab.Note: Chapters titles appear above the timecode when a user hovers over the timeline.To generate or upload Closed Captions, click the Closed Captions tab and do one of the following:Click the English (United States) drop-down to select the default language for your video.To automatically generate closed captions, click Auto-Generate.Important: English (United States) is the default language for auto-generated captions. If you select a different language and auto-generate captions, you must explicitly select that language to view that caption. Otherwise, a video will automatically display  English (United States) as a default, and state that there are no captions generated for English.To upload a closed caption file, click Upload.From the Timeline Editor do any of the following: Figure: Edit your video  in the Timeline Editor. Click the arrow icon and then click and drag the timeline to move to a specific point in the video.To create a section or block on the timeline, click the line icon ( | ) and do the following:Click on the timeline to place a marker at a start or 'in' point.Click on the timeline again to place a marker at an end or 'out' point.To cut a section of video out, click the scissors icon and click on a section with an in and out point.If you want to recover a previous version of your edits, click the date at the top of the dialog to select a previous version.Note: The latest saved version appears wherever the file is used within Brightspace.
When you have completed all edits, click Save Draft or click Finish to save over your previous video.
You have edited and saved your video using Advanced Editing.
Locate and view content in Media Player
You can access and edit audio-video content  from either the Classic Content experience or New Content experience (Lessons).
Note: You can also find all saved videos using Media Library. Refer to Media Library overview for more information. The Download option may not be available depending on your organization's setup. Contact your administrator for more information.
To view content in Media Player from the New Content experience
Navigate to Content.
Click to expand the lesson that contains a video.Figure:  Click on a video in one of your lessons.
Click to open the video in Media Player and play your video. 
If desired, click the Settings icon (gear) and do any of the following:Adjust the playback speed.Click Download to download the video.
You have located and viewed a video using the New Content Experience.
To view content in Media Player from Classic Content
Navigate to Content.
Under Table of Contents, click a module that contains a video and click the video to open it.Figure: Click a video in a module in the Classic Content experience to open it.
If desired, click the Settings icon (gear) and do any of the following:Adjust the playback speed.Click Download to download the video.Figure: Click Download in Media Player to download the video.
You have located and viewed a video using the Classic Content Experience.



--------------------------------------------------


View and download audio-video transcripts

Improve accessibility for your audio-video content by viewing and downloading transcripts.
Transcript View allows users to pair playback of a video file with scrolling captions. This introduces the View transcript option in the Media Player that allows you to download the transcript in .txt format or the caption track in .vtt format. The .vtt file provides time codes with the transcript text.
Note: Users can only download a caption if one has been added  or auto-generated. If no captions have been added, a user cannot to use the transcript view option.
To view and download a transcript
On your course homepage, navigate to anywhere that Media Player is available. 
Click on the video with the transcript you want to view and download.
On the video screen, click Settings (gear icon) then click View transcript.

Figure: The transcript view while using Media Player from a module in Content.
The transcript appears with the playable video in the upper-left corner. Click Download. Then click either Transcript (.txt) or Captions (.vtt).Figure: The Download option displaying the Transcript and Captions download options.
You have downloaded a transcript or caption from your video.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage audio-video content with Media Library

Record with your webcam
Quickly record and create content in Media Library using the Record Webcam option. 
Using the Record Webcam option, you can record video or audio within Media Library and create audio-video topics or insert them inline via ISF.
The Audio Only toggle in Video Note allows users to easily switch from a Video Note to an Audio Note.
On your course homepage, navigate to Media Library.
In Media Library, click Add, then clickRecord Webcam.

Figure: Media Library with the Add drop-down menu showing the Record Webcam option.
If your browser prompts you to allow microphone and camera access, click Allow.
Click New Recording to start your webcam recording. If you only want to record audio, turn the Audio only option ON.

Figure: Media Capture dialog with the New Recording and Audio only toggle switch options.
When you finish recording, click Stop Recording > Next.
Enter a Title, Description, and select the Audio Language. Select Automatically generate captions from audio if you want auto-generated captions.
Click Finish.

Figure: The Record Webcam dialog showing the Title, Description, and Audio Language options.
Note: An Uploading dialog appears at the bottom-right of the Media Library page to indicate the percentage of your video uploaded so far. A check mark appears in the dialog when the upload is complete.

Figure: The Uploading dialog showing the percentage of a video uploaded so far.
Delete multiple audio-video content items in Media Library
You can select multiple audio-video items in Media Library and delete them.
To select multiple audio-video items and delete

Navigate to Media Library.


Select the check boxes next the audio-video content you wish to apply bulk actions to. Or click the top checkbox to select all content for bulk actions.Figure: The Media Library page with audio-video content selected.


Click options ( ... ) next to Modified to access the following options:

Delete: Select Delete and click Delete to move selected content to the Recycle Bin.

The selected audio-video content is moved to the Recycle bin.
Note: Content moved to the Recycle Bin is permanently deleted after 90 days. To restore deleted content, click Recycle Bin select the options ( ... ) and click Restore.

Insert Stuff from the Media Library using Brightspace Editor
You can use the Insert Stuff icon in the Brightspace Editor to add audio-video content from the Media Library.

Figure: The Insert Stuff icon of the Brightspace Editor.
Note: The ability to use Media Library is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see Media Library in the Insert Stuff window, you will need to ask your administrator to enable the role permission for Content Service > Can Manage Objects.
To insert stuff from the Media Library
From the Brightspace Editor, click Insert Stuff.
Select Media Library.Figure: The Insert Stuff page with Media Library selected.
To locate audio-video content, enter a search term and click Search.Note: For a more refined search, click Search Options to filter your search.
Select the content you want to add and click Next.Figure: The Insert Stuff search page showing the Search field and Search Options with displayed search results.
Under Properties, customize the aspect ratio and maximum size of the video player.
Note: The player is responsive and scales to fit smaller screens if the video player size cannot maintain its maximum width or height. 
Click Insert.
Locate and insert Media Library Quicklinks with improved filter options
You can use the Insert Quicklink icon in the Brightspace Editor to add Media Library Quicklinks to your content.
Figure: The Insert Quicklink icon of the Brightspace Editor.
Note: The ability to use Media Library is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see Media Library in the Insert Quicklinks window, you will need to ask your administrator to enable the role permissions for Content Service > Can Manage Objects.
To insert Media Library quicklinks
From the Brightspace Editor, click Insert Quicklinks.
Select Media Library.Figure: The Insert Quicklinks page with Media Library selected.
Click to expand Filters. You can filter Medial Library content by:
Ownership: Filter by the owner of the  audio-video (AV) content (administrators only).Note: The owner of AV content is the person who initially uploaded or added the content. However, ownership of AV content can be reassigned to a different user by an administrator.Content Type: Filter by either audio or video content type.Source: Filter by where content was added from. Multiple filters can be selected:Content: Filter by AV content uploaded from the Content tool and Lessons.Media Library: Filter by AV content uploaded or created in Media Library.Audio or Video Note: Filter by content created using Audio and Video Note.Capture App: Filter by content created and published using the Capture App.Note: The Capture App is accessible when using Create Presentation in Media Library and is only available as part of Creator+.Imported: Filter by content added from course imports.Other: Filter by content added prior to the addition of source tracking.Content: Filter by AV content uploaded from the Content tool and Lessons.Media Library: Filter by AV content uploaded or created in Media Library.Audio or Video Note: Filter by content created using Audio and Video Note.Capture App: Filter by content created and published using the Capture App.Note: The Capture App is accessible when using Create Presentation in Media Library and is only available as part of Creator+.Imported: Filter by content added from course imports.Other: Filter by content added prior to the addition of source tracking.Date Modified: Filter by date modified. This changes to Date Deleted on the Recycle Bin screen.Date CreatedFigure: The filter options included with the Insert Quicklink feature of Brightspace Editor.
Select the content you want to add and click Next.
Click Insert.




--------------------------------------------------


Import and manage SCORM

Add a SCORM or xAPI package to the Content tool
If you are using the new SCORM solution, upload SCORM or xAPI packages directly into the Content tool.
To add a SCORM or xAPI package to the Content tool
In Content, either create or select a module to include your SCORM or xAPI package in.
Within your selected module, from the Upload/Create button, select New SCORM Object/xAPI Object.
In the Add Course Package - SCORM dialog window, do one of the following:If you want to upload a new SCORM or xAPI package, click Upload. Then, either browse one or more files, or drag and drop the files into the designated area. Note: You can upload up to 50 SCORM or xAPI objects at a time. If you want to add a previously uploaded SCORM or xAPI package, select it from the list.
Click Save.
On the Add Course Package - SCORM screen, do one or more of the following:To add the SCORM or xAPI object to the course, select it and click Add.If you want to create a grade item for the SCORM or xAPI object, click Yes. Then, select the type of grade calculation method you want to use. Note: To edit the grade item later, select the item in the grade book.If you want the SCORM or xAPI package in your course to remain as it was when you uploaded it (to be statically linked), click Display this version even if a new version is added.If you want the SCORM or xAPI package in your course to remain updated as new versions are added (to be dynamically linked), click Always display the latest version.If you want to update other properties, select the SCORM or xAPI object then select Properties. Then, you can change the title, and add or remove external navigation. 
Click Save.
Import a SCORM package
If you are using the Legacy SCORM solution, SCORM packages must be imported to the Content tool. The import function identifies the content as SCORM, and allows the proper initialization of SCORM LMS calls.
Note: The Legacy SCORM solution does not support xAPI objects.
To import a SCORM package
From Edit Course, click Import/Export/Copy components > Import Components.
Select from a course package.
Click Start.
Drag and drop the SCORM package onto the upload target.
Click Import All Components.
Do one of the following:To view the SCORM package within Content, click View Content.To import another SCORM package, click Import Another Package.
How to set SCORM Review/Retake functionality when importing SCORM/xAPI object
The built-in SCORM review/retake functionality can be enabled or disabled. When disabled, it allows you to use any native review/retake functionality and prevents conflicts with such.
Enable and disable SCORM review/retake functionality in the New Content Experience
Navigate to Add Existing > SCORM/xAPI

Figure: The SCROM/xAPI Object option on the What would you like to add? page.
Select a SCORM object to upload. 
Click the Action Dropdown menu and click Edit Properties.

Figure: The Action Dropdown menu showing the Edit Properties option.
In the  Edit Properties dialog,  under the Course Package Review/Retake Options, select one of the following:Add review/retake options. My package does not have built in review/retake functionality.Do not add review/retake options. My package does have built in review/retake functionality. (Default)

Figure: The Course Package Review/Retake Options section.
Click Save.
Note: If you want to change this option for an already imported SCORM object, you will need to re-import the SCORM as this feature is included at the time of processing the SCORM into Brightspace.
Enable and disable SCORM review/retake functionality in Classic Content
Navigate to Upload/Create > New SCORM/xAPI Object
In the publishing workflow,  Edit Properties dialogue,  expand the Advanced Settings area. Under the new subheading Course Package Review/Retake Options, select one of the following:Add review/retake options. My package does not have built in review/retake functionality.Do not add review/retake options. My package does have built in review/retake functionality. (Default)
Note: If you want to change this option for an already imported SCORM object, you will need to re-import the SCORM as this feature is included at the time of processing the SCORM into Brightspace.
Video: Add a SCORM package to the Content tool

Edit SCORM topics in the New Content Experience
With the new create and edit experience enabled, the edit page for SCORM topics allows you to edit the following information in SCORM packages:

Content Service SCORM packages – topic titles, dates, and associated grade items.


Imported SCORM packages – topic titles, dates, and associated grade items.


LOR Based SCORM packages - topic titles, dates, and associated grade items.

Note: The d2l.Tools.Content.LessonsCreateExperienceOptIn configuration variable must be enabled  for the new SCORM editing page to be visible.

Figure: SCORM edit page viewed in the new Content edit experience
To edit a SCORM package in the new Content experience

From the table of contents, select a unit, lesson, or material.


Click the (...) Options menu and select Edit.


Update the item.


Click Save.

Adding individual SCORM objects to Lessons
After you upload new SCORM solution objects into Content, you can add those objects to Lessons.
In Lessons, click Add Existing.
Click SCORM Object.
Select the SCORM you want to add to the Lesson. 
Click  the ellipses (…) next to the name of the SCORM object for the following additional options:PreviewEdit Properties:Change the titleChange the descriptionShare object with other instructors (dependent on user permissions)Indicate if you want to use external navigationUpload New VersionDelete
Click Next to add the selected SCORM object, and do any of the following:
                    Add a grade item to the object.
                            Choose the grade calculation method.
                    Indicate if you want to link to the object with a static link (the current version of the object is always used) or dynamic link (the most recently updated version of the object is always used).
                    Choose player options (either use an embedded player or open in a new browser window).
 Click Add.
Bulk Uploading SCORM objects to Lessons
In Lessons, click Add Existing.
Click SCORM Object.
Click Bulk Upload.
Drag and drop files or select Click to Upload.
Click Upload.
Once uploading is complete, click Keep Default Properties for all files or Edit properties for all files. 

If Edit properties for all files is selected, do the following for each uploaded SCORM object:

Change the title.


Change the description.


Share object with other instructors (dependent on user permissions).


Indicate if you want to use external navigation.



Click Next to move to the next SCORM object.

When an instructor or an administrator uploads a new SCORM solution object into the Content Service, they have the option of keeping the object properties the same, or changing them. 
After uploading an object, click properties and do any of the following:
To change the name of the SCORM object, 
To share the file, click Yes,share this file with and from the drop down menu, select the department (for Instructor and administrator role) or organization (for administrator role only) with which you want to share the object.
If you don't want to share with any other courses, click No, keep this file only to myself. 
If you want to use the optional navigation bar, click Add external navigation. My file does not have built in navigation option. Note: By default, the external navigation is turned off because most courses have built in navigation. 
Remove a grade item from a SCORM object after the package is imported
In order to remove a grade item that was originally created as part of a SCORM package, you must first break the association between the grade book item and the content item.
To remove a grade item from a SCORM object after the package is imported
In the Content tool, navigate to the SCORM object that you want to disassociate from the grade item. 
Click the content topic.
From the Activity Details tab, in the Assessment area, click the topic title.
From the context menu, click No Grade.
Click Save.
Note: If the SCORM package is already deleted, you cannot remove the grade book item. If you require grade book items to be removed from your course, contact D2L Support. 
Move your imported SCORM content to a different module
If you are using the legacy SCORM solution and you import a SCORM package, it creates a single module and topic as part of the process. After the import process is completed, you can move the topic using the move function in the Content tool to the desired module and delete the unnecessary module that was created as part of the import process.
Adjust the display size of your SCORM object
If you are using the legacy SCORM solution, in many cases, display issues are the result of settings selected when authoring a SCORM package. If SCORM objects are too small or too large when viewed in Content, consider replacing the absolute values set for the dimensions in the HTML file with relative values. 
From Manage Files, click the action menu for the file you want to edit.
Select Edit File > HTML Source Editor.
Replace the absolute values for width and height in the HTML file with relative values. 
Click Save.
Note: The location of these elements vary depending on the authoring tool used to create the SCORM package. Editing these values from the publishing tool and creating a new package with the updated values allows you to successfully use the package repeatedly while only needing to edit it once.
Update associated grade items and auto-transfer grades
When updating the grade item associated to a SCORM package in the New Content Experience (Lessons), existing scores are copied into the newly associated grade item. This is available for SCORM packages added through the Content Service, imported SCORM, and LOR based SCORM.
As SCORM is auto-graded through the SCORM package, a scaled version of the users score is copied. For example, if a learner received 50/100 (50%) on a SCORM topic, and the instructor then changes the associated grade item and sets it to be out of 150 points, the learner's score is recalculated to 75/150 (50%) on the new grade item. This action occurs any time an associated grade item is modified through the Edit page in the New Content Experience.



--------------------------------------------------


View user progress in Content

You can view students' progress, track how many topics they viewed, and how much of their time is spent examining the course content by going to the Reports page.
To view user progress in Content

Navigate to Content.


Click on Course options (gear icon) > View Reports.


Figure: The Course options icon showing the View Reports option.

On the Reports page, in the Content tab, the statistics for your content topics are visible. 


Figure: The Content tab showing the statistics for all Content topics.

To view student statistics for a Content topic, in the Available To column, click the number.


Figure: The Available To column.

The Reports page for your Content topic shows you the following statistics for each student:


Last Visited


Number of Visits


Total Time Spent


Average Time Spent


Figure: The Reports page for a specific Content topic.



--------------------------------------------------


Create a rubric using the Rubrics tool

Rubrics allow you to provide efficient, timely, and meaningful grades and feedback to students. They can be tied to assignments, quizzes, and discussions, and give you the opportunity to provide a framework to students on activity expectations.
Create a Rubric
Use the Rubrics tool to create, name, and customize your rubric to fit your assessment needs.
To create a new rubric
From the Rubrics tool, click New Rubric.Figure: The New Rubric button.
Enter a Name for your rubric.
Choose the appropriate rubric Type:Figure: The Type drop-down menu with options for Analytic or Holistic rubrics.
Type: Analytic provides the ability to add multiple criteria within a rubric.Type: Holistic provides a single criterion. You can also assess holistic rubrics using percent scores that are set for each rubric level.

Choose the appropriate Scoring type:Figure: The Scoring drop-down menu with options for Points, No Score, and Custom Points.
Scoring: Points results in each rubric level having the same score for each criterion.
Scoring: No Score indicates that no point values are set.
Scoring: Custom Points provides the ability to set unique point values for each level in each criterion.Note: For more information about Rubric types and Scoring types, see Create a Rubric - About Rubric types.

Click New Criterion to enter the criterion name, enter a rubric Level, and enter the point level .Figure: Criterion name, level, and point level settings.
Do any of the following optional steps:If you want to add more rubric levels, click the Add new level before (+) button.Figure: The + button to add additional rubric levels. The new level appears as a column beside the existing level(s).If you want to delete existing rubric levels, click the trash bin icon.Figure: The trash bin icon removes the level.If you want to add more criteria, click + Add Criterion and enter the criterion name.Figure: The + Add Criterion button appears below the existing criterion lines.If you want to delete existing criteria, click Delete Row.
Add a description of each criterion Level, as well as Initial Feedback for that level that will be applied when assessing learner submissions. Figure: Level Descriptions and Initial Feedbackfor a criteria.Note: You can click Add Criteria Group to create a separate group of assessment criteria.
Adjust the Overall Score parameters to determine the overall level and score that is mapped to achievement levels and assigned to learners based on their submission.Figure: Overall Score enables you to set a level of achievement based on a submission's overall rubric score.
Click to expand Options, and customize the following:Figure: Rubric Options,  including Rubric Visibility, Score Visibility, Description, and Advanced Availability.Rubric VisibilityScore Visibility DescriptionAdvanced Availability
Click Close to finish creating your rubric.
Video: Create a rubric

Edit a rubric
Use the Context menu of the Rubrics tool to edit a rubric.
Note: Rubrics that have been used to assess learners' work are locked, and it is only possible to edit text fields. To edit items such as the number of criteria or the number of achievement levels that would affect the academic integrity of a rubric already in use, you must copy the rubric and edit the new version.
To edit a rubric
Navigate to the rubric you want to edit.
Click the More Options arrow beside the rubric you want to edit.
Click Edit.Figure: The More Options menu for a rubric provides options, including Edit and Copy.
Edit an assessed rubric
Normally, rubrics that have been used for evaluation are locked and can't be edited. However if you have the Edit Assessed Rubrics permission, you can correct spelling errors, clarify wording, and make other minor changes that shouldn't impact the academic integrity of the rubric.
Note: It is only possible to make changes to assessed rubrics that are created in the current course or are copied from another course. Shared rubrics remain locked.
To edit an assessed rubric
From your course navbar, click Rubrics.
On the Rubrics page, click the rubric you want to edit.
On the Edit Rubric page, click Edit Text in the alert banner at the top of the page.
In the Edit this assessed rubric? dialog box, click Edit Text and enter your edits. The red boxes in the following image indicate which fields you can edit:Figure: The Edit Rubric page showing which text fields can be edited within an assessed rubric.
Click Close. Your edits save automatically.
Note: You can't make structural changes (such as adding evaluation levels or criteria), edit points, or add outcome alignments to assessed rubrics.
When an instructor makes a change to a previously assessed rubric, it is updated with a blue highlight and the text Edited in the lower right corner. When the instructor saves and closes the rubric, the edit indications no longer appear. 

Figure: The Edit Rubric window with changes highlighted and indicated with the word Edited.
Control the visibility of rubrics
You can control rubric visibility for students. This is useful for preventing students from using preview rubrics as answer keys for activities. For example, you can describe assessment expectations in assignment instructions, hiding the associated preview rubric. Once the assignment is graded, you release the graded rubric as part of the student's assessment details. 
Rubric visibility is controlled in two ways:
Administrators can set the default visibility of new rubrics at the org unit level.
Teachers can set the visibility of individual rubrics. Creating or editing a rubric includes the following options: Rubric is always visible to learners, Rubric is hidden until feedback published, and Rubric is never visible to learners.
Note: If a teacher attempts to publish a partially completed rubric evaluation, the Unscored Rubric Criteria dialog appears to warn them that not all rubric criteria has been scored. By default, the Continue Grading option is selected and the teacher can tap ENTER to return to the rubric, or tap Publish Anyway to continue to publish the partial evaluation. This workflow ensures that there is a verification layer to reconsider their action and ensure that teachers are not mistakenly publishing incomplete evaluations. 
To indicate rubric visibility to teachers, rubrics that are hidden until feedback is published or rubrics that are never visible display an indicator in the Rubrics section of the associated activity. Visible rubrics do not display an indicator.
Note the following:
Feedback copied from hidden rubrics only displays for students; it is not visible to teachers as they have access to the rubric. The visibility status of a rubric can only be changed at the rubric level, not at the activity level. For example, you cannot change the visibility of a rubric from an assignment.
Visibility is a property of a rubric and not an individual assessment. Rubric definitions and published feedback appear in the assessment tool where the rubric  is used. Note: Starting with the June 2020/20.20.6 release, this includes Assignments and Grades. Other tools, including Discussions, Brightspace Portfolio, and Outcomes Progress will be updated to use rubrics in future Brightspace updates. 
For individual and group discussions, a teacher assesses the rubric in the assess topic workflow. Upon saving the assessment, the rubric feedback is considered published.
Using Rubrics in mobile view
The evaluation view for the Assignments and Discussions tools uses a collapsible container component in the right side panel. Teachers can open or close these panels for Rubrics, Grades & Feedback, Outcomes, and Competencies. 
To grade a rubric in mobile view
Navigate to Assignments or Discussions.
For the assignment or discussion you want to evaluate, click the Actions drop-down menu and then click View Submissions.
In the Submissions tab, click the assignment or discussion you want to evaluate.
As you evaluate, notice the triangle. Click the triangle for the panels for Rubrics, Grades & Feedback, Outcomes, and Competencies to open the evaluation container. Click the triangle again to close the container.

Figure: Click the triangle to open or close the evaluation container.
Add feedback to your desired sections.
Click Save Draft or Publish.
You have evaluated an assignment or discussion in mobile view.
Print or download a PDF of a rubric
Instructors can print or download a PDF of preview (unevaluated) and evaluated rubrics. Students can also print or download a PDF of a rubric from the desktop browser implementation of Brightspace.
In all displays of a rubric, the Print button displays above the top-right corner of the rubric. 
Printed rubrics include the logo from the organization that issued the rubric; specifically, the image displayed in the course navigation bar. The logo image provides clear organizational recognition for rubrics that were evaluated in courses in your organization and distinguishes rubrics within a student's Portfolio if they have taken classes from multiple institutions. You can use the brand recognition of the logos to assess the merits for credit from other institutions.
Print a preview of a rubric
From Course Admin, click Rubrics.
Do one of the following:From the More Actions menu beside the Rubric Name, click Preview.Click a rubric to open the Edit Rubric page. From the Edit Rubric More Actions menu, click Preview.
Click Print Rubric
Select the printer or PDF driver you want to use and click Print.
Print an evaluated rubric from the Grades tool
Navigate to Grades. 
Click the action menu to the right of any student name and select Preview Grades. 
Click View Graded Rubric.
Click Print Rubric. 
Select the printer or PDF driver you want to use and click Print.
Print an evaluated rubric from Outcomes Progress
Navigate to Class Progress.
Select a student from the Class List.
Select the Grades option from the left navigation bar.
Expand the Feedback section for a grade item.
Select View Graded Rubric.
Click Print Rubric.
Select the printer or PDF driver you want to use and click Print.
Copying rubrics
Copying a rubric creates a new rubric based on an existing rubric in the same org unit, allowing you to easily reuse it in a course. The new rubric has the same properties, levels and criteria, and is shared with the same org units as the original rubric.
On the navbar, click  Rubrics.
On the Rubrics page, from the context menu of the rubric you want to copy, click Copy.
Click on the new rubric to edit it.
It is also possible to copy a single rubric criterion to facilitate reusing criteria that have already been created. 
Open the rubric you want to edit. 
On the Edit Rubrics page, click the action menu beside the criterion name. 
Click Copy Row. Note: The new criterion is added under the original with the criterion name Copy of [name of original criterion]. It is automatically highlighted so you can rename the new criterion.
Rename the newly created criterion. 
Delete a rubric
You can only delete a rubric in the org unit where it was created. You cannot delete a rubric that is being used by a Competencies activity or Brightspace ePortfolio item, or attached to a grade item. 
On the navbar, click  Rubrics.
On the Rubrics page, from the context menu of the rubric you want to delete, click Delete. 
To delete a single criterion from a rubric
Open the rubric you want to edit. 
On the Edit Rubrics page, click the action menu beside the criterion name. 
Click Delete Row. 
Share a rubric
You can create rubrics at the organization, department, or course level. Rubrics are not automatically shared with all child org units below the org unit where they were created. You must explicitly share them if you want to make them available to child org units. Rubrics created at the course level cannot be shared with other courses, however, you can create a rubric in a course template and reuse it in course offerings for that course template. 
If you are using Competencies to evaluate users, we recommend you set up rubrics before you set up your competencies, learning objectives, and activities since you cannot create an activity without associating it with a rubric and you cannot assess whether a user has completed a competency or learning objective without assessing the associated activities using the rubric.
On the My Home page, on the navbar, click Rubrics.
Click on the rubric you want to share with another org unit.
In the Properties tab, in the Advanced Availability area, click Add Org Units.
Select the org units where you want to share the rubric. If applicable, you can also select sharing options, including This org unit, All descendants, or All descendants of type.
Click Insert.
Click Save.
Copying and deleting a criterion group
To better facilitate organizing and reusing rubric content, instructors can copy or delete an existing criteria group. 
Note: When a rubric with attached assessment items has submissions evaluated against it, the rubric is locked and can no longer be edited or deleted.
When you have an existing criteria group, the Copy Criteria Group and Delete Criteria Group options appear when you click (...) Action Menu on the Criteria Group header. If you are using keyboard-only navigation, these options are available in the tab order after the criteria group name.

Figure: The Copy and Delete options are available in the action menu on the Criteria Group header
 
To copy an existing criteria group:
On the navbar or from the Course Admin menu, click Rubrics.
On the Rubrics page, click the rubric you want to edit.
Identify the Rubric criteria group that you want to copy and click the (...) Action Menu beside the Criteria Group header.
Click Copy Criteria Group. The new criteria group appears below the original criteria group. If you are using keyboard navigation, the keyboard focus moves to the name of the new criteria group. 
Add a new name to the new criteria group.
Note: Aligned learning outcomes are not copied when you copy a criteria group. Specific details of the evaluation criterion should be updated and re-aligned with specific learning outcomes which apply to the new criterion elements in the criteria group.
 
To delete an existing criteria group:
Note: The delete option is only available if there is more than one criteria group.
On the navbar or from the Course Admin menu, click Rubrics.
On the Rubrics page, click the rubric containing the criteria group you want to delete.
Identify the Rubric criteria group that you want to delete and click the (...) Action Menu beside the Criteria Group header.
Click Delete Criteria Group.




--------------------------------------------------


Evaluate quizzes

Evaluate quizzes using the Quizzes tool
If your quiz has questions that can be auto-graded in Brightspace, you do not have to evaluate those questions unless desired.
To evaluate quizzes
On your course homepage, navigate to Quizzes.
Click the drop-down menu beside the name of the quiz you want to evaluate.

Select Grade.
Figure: Select Grade in the Actions drop-down menu.

From the Grade Quiz page, select an attempt to open the quiz for grading.
Under the Score of a quiz question, enter a new point value and select Update to save.Note: If you have negative grading enabled, you can also enter a negative value in the Score field. For example, if a question is graded out of 1 point, and you want to deduct 25% from that point  because the answer submitted is incorrect, enter -0.25. Note that when deducting percentages from point values, the final attempt grade for the quiz will not go below 0. For more information about negative grading, refer to the Create a quiz with negative grading section of the Create and configure a quiz topic.
Evaluating quizzes in the Users or Attempts tab
Evaluating quizzes from the Attempts tab lets you grade students' quizzes by selecting an attempt from their attempt log.
To evaluate quizzes in the Users or Attempts tab
On your course homepage, navigate to Quizzes.
Click the drop-down menu beside the name of the quiz you want to evaluate.
Select Grade.Figure: Select Grade in the Actions drop-down menu.
Select  Attempts.
Select the quiz attempt you want to grade from the Attempt column.
In the Question View drop-down menu, choose either:All questions to view all quiz questions whether you have or have not graded them.Pending evaluations to only view the questions you have not graded.
For each written question's Attempt Grade, enter the score for that question. Note: If you have negative grading enabled, you can also enter a negative value in the Score field. For example, if a question is graded out of 1 point, and you want to deduct 25% from that point  because the answer submitted is incorrect, enter -0.25. Note that when deducting percentages from point values, the final attempt grade for the quiz will not go below 0. For more information about negative grading, refer to the Enable negative grading of incorrect quiz questions section of the Create and configure a quiz topic.
For questions with auto-graded Scores, like multiple choice questions, you do not have to grade the question unless you are correcting an error.
In the Feedback text box, enter feedback for that question if desired.Note: The Feedback field has character limit of 65,536 characters.
Click Update when you are finished grading to save your evaluation. Alternatively, click Retract to remove your evaluation. 
Click Back to return to the Grade Quiz page.
Repeat the above steps for each student.
Evaluating quizzes in the Questions tab
The Questions tab allows you to grade all student attempts for a single question. You can choose Grade individual responses to grade the question for each student; or you can Update all attempts to give everyone the same mark for a specific question.
For the Grade individual responses workflow:
Under Grade individual responses, select Hide learners' names or View evaluated responses to see students' names.
Click the question you want to evaluate.Note: You do not have to enter grades for auto-graded questions unless desired.
For the Page Size drop-down list below Grade Question, click the number of student responses you want per page. The number of questions that can appear are 1, 5, 10, and 20.
Enter the Score.
Click Expand question feedback to open the Feedback text box. Enter your feedback if desired.Note: The Feedback field has character limit of 65,536 characters.
To move to the next page of responses, click the arrows below Grade Question.
When you are finished grading, click Save to return to the Grade Quiz page.
Repeat the above steps for each question.
Note: You cannot print a graded quiz. If you need to do it, take screenshots and add them to a document that can be printed.
Save draft quiz feedback
When evaluating a quiz, save your quiz feedback as a draft to continue your evaluation later.
To save quiz feedback as a draft
Navigate to Quizzes.
From the Actions menu of the quiz you want to grade, click Grade.

Figure: The Actions menu of a quiz showing the Grade option.
In the Users tab, click the attempt of the student you want to evaluate.
After evaluating the quiz submission, click Save Draft to store any grading and feedback information. 
On the Grade Quiz page, in the Status column, attempts with draft feedback display Draft Saved, along with the date and time it was saved (to indicate that evaluation is in progress).
Click Publish Feedback to release the feedback for multiple attempts simultaneously.
Note: Once feedback is published, the user interface displays options to Update and Retract. Retract allows score and feedback to be hidden from students. Published feedback automatically appears in your grade book. If you retract published feedback, the entry is simultaneously removed from the grade book until you publish again. 
Retake incorrect quiz questions in subsequent attempts
The Retake Incorrect Questions Only option allows students to only retake their incorrectly answered questions from previous quiz attempts. When the student re-attempts their quiz, the quiz questions answered incorrectly on previous attempts are indicated by an alert symbol. Each quiz attempt displays questions in the same order as the initial attempt (including quizzes with question pools). Questions that were correct on previous attempts still show the “question stem” but will omit the answers.
You can use Preview Quiz to take the quiz and submit a Preview Attempt. You must select the Allow this preview attempt to be graded in the Grade Quiz area on the submission page of the preview attempt.
Grading considerations
A student's score for a Retake Incorrect Questions Only attempt remains at minimum, the score they had on the previous attempt. Correctly answered questions on the Retake Incorrect Questions Only attempt add to the student's attempts score.
When grading a Retake Incorrect Questions Only quiz attempt, the teacher can only provide a score for the questions answered on this attempt. The Quiz Overall Score is calculated using the existing Highest/Lowest/First/Last/Average aggregation functions. The Average aggregation function can be used to give the student partial marks for questions that were not answered correctly on the first attempt.
D2L recommends against using Automatically set as graded option for quizzes with written response questions.  If you use Automatic grading, Written Response questions will be marked as 0 and included in future attempts until they are graded manually.
In the Attempt Log, teachers and administrators can identify retaken attempts:

Figure: Retaken attempts are noted after the student's name in the Attempt log.
In addition, on the Users tab, retaken attempts are listed to differentiate from first attempts.

Figure: The Users tab indicates a retaken quiz attempt for the student.
Enable learning objective completion using grade item activities with automatic assessment
You can configure automatic evaluation for grade item activities so that students' activity achievement is determined automatically based on their grade item score. 
To enable learning objective completion using grade item activities with automatic assessment
Navigate to Competencies.
On the Competency homepage, click on the learning objective you want to add a grade item activity to for automatic assessment.
Click Structure.
In the Edit Structure tab, expand the Add Children section and click Incorporate Activities. 
Click on the activity you want to add to the learning objective.
Select the Assess Objective check box.
From the Assessment Type drop-down list, select Numeric.
Select the The activity is required to complete learning objective check box, and then enter the Overall Threshold information.
Click Add.
You can also configure grade item activities to automatically evaluate by attaching a holistic rubric to the item. If you attach a holistic rubric for a grade item activity that uses Percentages as the scoring method, the student's grade percentage is automatically mapped to the appropriate achievement level. 
Video: Associate quiz competencies with quiz questions




--------------------------------------------------


Manage quizzes with learner attempts

Editing quizzes with learner attempts
D2L recommends careful consideration before editing quiz questions or quizzes that have been released to learners and have learner attempts completed or in-progress. Changes you make to due date and time limit setting do not impact past attempts or in-progress attempts by users. 
Edits to quiz due dates and time limits
Existing quiz due dates and time limits are locked at the time a learner begins a quiz attempt. Changes you make to due date and time limit settings on published quizzes will not impact past attempts or in-progress attempts by users.  Only new quiz attempts will use the updated due date and time limit settings.
Edits to quiz scores and grading
Changes that alter the score or grading method of quiz questions apply only to the edited version of the quiz for future attempts.
The following types of edits to quiz questions can change the overall grade of a quiz.
Changing the points associated with a question in a quiz
Adding or removing a question
Changing the bonus status of a question
Quiz content and score edits do not apply to completed attempts or attempts in progress. Previous quiz attempts reflect the quiz content and scoring as it appeared to each learner at the exact time they started their attempt.
Overall grade calculations appear as follows for edited quizzes with unaltered previous attempts:
When using the Highest Attempt, First Attempt, Last Attempt, and Lowest Attempt methods, the learner's actual attempt numerator and denominator are used to calculate the Overall Grade. The denominator in Overall Grade for previous attempts is not changed by edits that alter the quiz score for future attempts. The Overall Grade is determined by the highest percentage score across all attempts.
For the Average Attempt method, the learner's percentage scores are averaged and displayed using the denominator of the most recently edited version of the Quiz.
Update question scores for previous attempts on quizzes
You can directly alter learner scores on specific questions in previous attempts on an edited quiz using Update All Attempts.
Navigate to Quizzes.
	From the Actions drop-down menu of the quiz you have edited, click Grade.

Figure: The Grade option in the Actions drop-down menu.
In the Questions tab, select Update all attempts.
Click the quiz question that you want to grade.
Enter grades for all respondents in the appropriate Grading Type field.
Click Save.
Reset quiz attempts
            Students may experience technical issues while taking a quiz. If necessary, you can delete a quiz attempt for your student and provide the opportunity to retake their quizzes by resetting attempts.
To reset quiz attempts
On the navbar, click Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, click the drop-down menu beside the quiz with attempts you want to reset, and click Grade.Figure: The Grade option in the drop-down menu of the quiz.
Select the check box for each attempt you want to reset and then click the Reset button at the top of the list of quiz attempts.
Figure: The Reset button on the Manage Quizzes tab.Note: By default, the Grade Quiz page only displays completed quiz attempts. To view quiz attempts in progress, on the Users tab or the Attempts tab, from the Restrict to filter, select either All attempts or Users with attempts in progress.
Submit in-progress quizzes
Sometimes students fail to click the Submit button when taking a quiz. If they forget to click Submit, their quiz attempt will appear to be missing. You can impersonate your student and search for their attempt in order to submit the quiz on their behalf.
To submit an in-progress quiz on behalf of a learner
In Quizzes, on the Manage Quizzes page, click the drop-down menu next to the quiz you want to grade.
Select Grade.

Figure: The Grade option in the Actions drop-down menu.
On the Users tab, click Show Search Options.
From the Restrict to drop-down menu, select either All users or Users with attempts in progress.

Figure: The Users tab showing the Restrict to drop-down menu.
Click the Enter quiz as user icon next to the in-progress quiz and click Submit to submit the Quiz as that user.




--------------------------------------------------


View quiz statistics and attempt logs

View quiz statistics
You can view and export quiz statistics and reports to a CSV file and/or an Excel file for data analysis. The  files contain all pertinent information on the quiz so that you can query, sort, and evaluate the data without being connected to Brightspace. In this view, you can see a list of quizzes for the course. The average grade for each quiz displays beside the quiz name.
Note: Quiz statistics are no longer accurate if you edit a question in the quiz after the quiz question has been attempted by a learner. 
To view quiz statistics

On the Manage Quizzes page, open the Actions drop-down menu for the quiz you want to view and click Statistics.


Figure: Select Statistics in the Actions drop-down menu.

On the View Statistics page, click the User Stats, Question Stats, and Question Details tabs to view statistics broken down by user and by question.
Note: If you have negative grading enabled, the results displayed on the Question Statstab are updated. Point Biserial results may be lower when negative grading is enabled. Standard Deviation has a wider distribution to account for negative grading. Questions with a negative average score appear below zero in the Grade Distribution graph. If you enable negative grading, enter negative grades, and then turn off negative grading, negative grades existing in the system will result in incorrect score calculations. For more information about negative grading, refer to the Create a quiz with negative grading section of the Create and configure a quiz topic.Figure: Question Statistics display updated values to account for negative grading, including a below zero average score.


Click Export to CSV or Export to Excel if you want to save the quiz's statistics to your computer.

Note: The system exports the statistics only from the tab you are currently viewing.
Understanding User Stats
User Stats CSV and Excel files contain performance data by user, including the user’s Org Defined ID, username, first name, last name, quiz score, the value the quiz was graded out of, the user’s score as a percentage, and the class average.
Tip: You can create a column to calculate the median score on the quiz to consider the class’s performance from a different perspective. Use the formula <=median(x1:x5)> to calculate the median.
Understanding Question Stats
Question Stats CSV and Excel files contain data about the average score on questions by points and percentage.
The question title, text, bonus status, and difficulty level are included in the files so that data can be analyzed without referring back to the learning management system.
Tip: You can sort, query, hide, and delete data to help your analysis and create charts or graphs to visually represent trends. 
Note: Quiz statistics are not computed for questions in a Question Pool.
Understanding Question Details
Question Details CSV and Excel files contain detailed information about each question in the quiz, including a list of all of the answers provided for each quiz attempt, how many users chose each possible answer, the total number of responses, and the average score on the question. Question Details reports can help you evaluate trends in answers and look for questions that were unclear or difficult for a number of users.
The question title, text, bonus status, and difficulty level are included in the CSV file so that data can be analyzed without referring back to the learning management system.
Tip: You can create a column that calculates the average score for all question attempts as a percentage by dividing the Average Score column by the Out Of column and multiplying by 100. Next, create a custom filter for the new Attempt Average column that displays only rows where the attempt average is less than 51%. This way you can quickly review questions that users struggle with and adjust grades or your lesson plans accordingly.
Data exported for question details
Question Type
What is exported
Multiple Choice
All possible answers and the number of responses for each answer.
True/False
All possible answers and the number of responses for each answer.
Written Response
All the responses provided listed on separate rows.
Short Answer
The correct answer for each blank and an additional row for all other answers, and the number of responses for the correct answer versus other answers.
Multi-Short Answer
The correct answers for each blank and an additional row for all other answers, and the number of responses for the correct answer versus other answers.
Fill in the Blanks
The correct answers and an additional row for other answers, and the number of responses for the correct answer versus other answers.
Multi-Select
All possible answers and the number of responses for each answer.
Matching
All possible matches and the number of responses for each match.
Ordering
All answers in the order match and the number of responses for each match.
Arithmetic
Questions are broken down by results and units. Also, lists which users had both results and units correct, only results correct, only units correct, and neither correct.
Significant Figures
Questions are broken down by results and units. Also lists which users had both results and units correct, both results and units correct, as well as significant figures, only results correct, only results and significant figures correct, only units correct, and neither results or units correct. 
View quiz Attempt Logs
 The Attempt Logs track detailed quiz attempt events per user. From the Overview tab you can view quiz attempts based on Quiz Entry time, Quiz Completion time, Quiz Attempt Deleted, and Quiz Attempt Restored. 
From the Detailed tab you can view the following quiz attempt events: Quiz Entry and re-entry times, Response Save time, Page Movement time, Quiz confirmation screen / completion time, and IP Address when each event occurs. 
To view Attempt Logs for quizzes
Navigate to Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, from the Actions drop-down menu of the quiz with attempts you want to reset, click Attempt Logs.

Figure: The Attempt Logs option in the Actions drop-down menu.
On the Attempt Logs page, from the Overview tab to filter your view of the attempts by the following filters:Quiz Entry: View quiz attempts that have been started by learners.Quiz Completion:  View quiz attempts that have been completed.Quiz Attempt Deleted: View quiz attempts that have been deleted.Quiz Attempt Restored: View previously deleted quiz attempts that have been restored.Note: All selected filters display their associated results. To deselect a filter, click the filter label again.
Click the Detailed tab to view all Attempt events for the quiz. Each Attempt has the name of the user who performed the Event. For each Attempt, the Event  is described, Modified by notes who performed the event, and Date states when the Event took place.

Figure: An example of the Detailed tab in Attempt Logs.
Restore deleted quiz attempts in the Attempt Logs
You can restore deleted quiz attempts for learners in the quiz's Attempt Logs Overview tab. 
Note the following:
A deleted quiz attempt can only be restored if the learner does not have another quiz attempt in progress.
The Restore button only appears for the latest deleted quiz attempt.
To restore a deleted quiz attempt
Navigate to Quizzes.
On the Manage Quizzes page, from the context menu of the quiz with attempts you want to reset, click Attempt Logs.

Figure: The Attempt Logs option in the Actions drop-down menu.
From the Overview tab, click Quiz Attempt Deleted. Click Restore for the quiz attempt you want to restore. 
Video: Restore a Quiz Attempt




--------------------------------------------------


Evaluate with Quick Eval

Quick Eval enables you to use a single location to view all student submissions that are awaiting evaluation. Submissions made to Assignments, Quizzes, and Discussions are displayed in a list and can be selected to take you directly to their assessment page. 
Figure: The   Submissions tab of the Quick Eval page.
Click on a student's name to open an evaluation screen directly from the Quick Eval list where you can complete your assessment.
Quick Eval submission type and behavior
The following behavior applies to submitted Assignments: 

A submissions is listed when a student submits a file or text, or marks an assignment as complete. 


Assignments  remain visible until you publish feedback for the submission. 


If a resubmission is made by the student, it is added to the Quick Eval list. 


Submissions with their feedback in draft status display a draft icon to indicate their status. 


For assignments with the completion type Automatically on due date, when the due date passes, all submissions display in Quick Eval. 


Assignments with the completion type Automatically on Evaluation are not displayed in Quick Eval. 


Evaluators only see assignment submissions from students in sections they are enrolled in.

The following behavior applies to submitted Quizzes:

A submission is listed when a student completes a quiz that requires manual grading. 


Once the quiz attempt is graded and saved, it is considered evaluated and no longer displays in Quick Eval.


  If a quiz is setup without the Automatic Export to Grades setting, then a quiz attempt evaluation from Quick Eval does not export to Grades. The evaluator must navigate to the Quizzes tool and select the quiz attempts to publish to the gradebook


Evaluators only see quiz attempts from students in sections they are enrolled in.

The following behavior applies to submitted Discussions:

A submission is listed when assessable discussion topics have a post or a reply written by a student. 


When the feedback on a discussion post is saved or published, the student submission is no longer displayed in Quick Eval


Submissions with feedback in draft status display a draft icon to indicate their status. 


Evaluators only see discussion posts from students in sections they are enrolled in.

Sort and filter submissions in Quick Eval
You can sort submissions by first or last name, Activity Name, Course Name, or Submission date. Filter submissions by Activity Name, Course Name, and Submission Date. 
When accessing Quick Eval from a specific course, the list of activities to evaluate is prefiltered to only show items from that course. To view submissions from all available courses, click the ellipses icon and select Multi-Course Quick Eval.
Submissions view supports anonymous marking for assignments created with the Hide student names during assessment option selected. Student names and profile images do not display and are replaced by a generic profile image, and the name column shows Anonymous User.
 The search function in Quick Eval allows evaluators to locate submissions for evaluation by searching for a specific user, assignment, quiz, discussion topic, or course. Once you complete an evaluation, publish your feedback or save it as a draft and then return to the Quick Eval list to continue evaluating. Any assessment awaiting evaluation, or with its evaluation saved in draft status displays in Quick Eval.
View activities in Quick Eval
In Quick Eval, select the Activitiestab to display a list of any assessable activities that have one or more submissions, regardless of the submission status. This view makes it easy to complete all assessments for one assignment, discussion, or quiz before moving on to the next task. 

Figure: The Activities tab of the the Quick Eval page.
Activities view displays indicators to show the students progress on submissions, teachers progress on evaluations, and on publishing feedback to students. It also includes links to the evaluation page, submission page, and a publish all action. 
A new count is displayed for Assignments, Quizzes, and Discussions. It corresponds to the sum of student submissions that have never been evaluated or resubmitted since the last evaluation (either draft or published).
An activity shows up in Quick Eval’s Activities view when there is an assessable activity that has one or more submissions, regardless of the submission status (i.e. either awaiting evaluation status or evaluated).
Evaluate submissions in Quick Eval
You can evaluate assignments, quizzes, and discussions from the Quick Eval list.
To evaluate an assignment

From your course navbar, click Quick Eval.


Click an assignment submission from the Quick Eval list to be taken to an evaluation page for that assignment.Figure: The evaluation page for an assignment.


Enter an Overall Grade and Overall Feedback for the assignment.


If you have linked the assignment to Standards, select a standard.


Click Publish.

To evaluate a quiz

From your course navbar, click Quick Eval.


Click a quiz submission from the Quick Eval list to be taken to an evaluation page for that quiz.Figure: The evaluation page for a quiz.


To update the quiz grade results, enter an Attempt Grade.


Enter Attempt Feedback.


Under Quiz Results, review and enter an update Score if desired.


Click Publish.

When a discussion submission is selected, the evaluator is taken to the Discussion Evaluation screen.
Once evaluation of an individual submission is complete, click Back to Quick Eval to return to the Quick Eval tool at the course level or org level, depending on where you launched it from, and continue evaluating.
Dismiss Activities
When you dismiss an activity, it is hidden from the Quick Eval list, but won't affect the activity.  A dismissed activity is still available for evaluation from its own tool (Assignments, Quizzes, Discussions).
To dismiss activities

From your course navbar, click Quick Eval.

From the View by options, click the Activities tab.
Hover over the activity you want to dismiss and click More Actions > Dismiss until.Figure: The Dismiss until option for an activity.
Select one of the following:A specific date and set how long you want to dismiss the activity forForeverDismiss Until Next Submission
Select Dismiss Activity.
The activity remains dismissed until the selected condition is met, or you manually restore it using the ellipsis icon in Quick Eval.
Restore Activities
You can also restore activities that have been hidden.
To restore activities
From your course navbar, click Quick Eval.
Click Quick Eval More Actions and select Dismissed activities.
Select the check box of the item you want to restore and click Restore.
Quick Eval widget
The Quick Eval widget can be added to a course homepage and allows teachers to view and access any submissions awaiting evaluation. The Quick Eval widget displays a list of up to six activities with submissions to evaluate. The activities are sorted by due date, with the earliest date first. The icon indicator in the widget shows the type of activity (assignment, discussion, or quiz), and the number of unevaluated submissions for each activity.
If the Quick Eval widget is placed on the organization level homepage it displays information from all active courses.



--------------------------------------------------


Define Portfolio class settings

In Brightspace, the Portfolio tool provides class settings for student avatars and evidence approval. 

Figure: Click Settings in the Portfolio tool.
            Student avatars
You can turn on a setting that displays Funster avatars instead of learner profile photos. This avatar setting only applies to  the teacher view of the students in the class. 
When a student visits their Brightspace Portfolio, the avatar that appears follows the following rules:
If the student has a Brightspace avatar, use it.
If the student does not have a Brightspace avatar, but they have been in a course that assigned them a Funster, use the Funster.
If they student has neither a Brightspace avatar nor a Funster, use the default profile image.
If students are in a course that was configured before the January 2018 upgrade, the avatar defaults to the Funster.
Evidence approval
You can choose the methods for adding evidence that require your approval. This ensures that evidence collected with a specified method does not appear in the student's portfolio until you approve it. These options are more suitable for young students in a K-12 learning environment. The available options include:
The Portfolio web tool
The Portfolio app in Class Device and Family Device modes (enabled be default)
The Portfolio app in My Device mode
For example, if you are using a shared class device with your students, you may want to choose the The Portfolio app in 'Class Device' and 'Family Device' modes option.
Define Portfolio class settings
Navigate to Portfolio.
From the Portfolio page, click Settings.
To use Funsters instead of profile photos of students, click Use friendly Funster avatars instead of profile photos.
Under Evidence Approval, choose the methods for adding evidence that require your approval. 
Click Save.




--------------------------------------------------


Filter classlists by section

In some cases, teachers have very large courses with many learners, instructors, and teaching assistants, and use sections to split the course into manageable lists. 
To filter by section, you must have permissions and access to view the sections in the course. If there are sections in a classlist, the students are automatically filtered into their respective section. Teachers can only filter on sections to which they have access permissions. If you have access to one section only, that section is automatically selected by default. Teachers with access permissions to multiple sections can remove the section filter by selecting All Users. 



--------------------------------------------------


Ideas for using Brightspace Portfolio in K-12 organizations

K-8 organizations
For K-8 organizations, the following are some ideas on how to use Brightspace Portfolio to capture evidence of learning:

Gardening/Science – monitoring a green space and tracking growth.


Scavenger Hunts – numeracy and literacy, finding things in groups of a certain number, finding certain shapes in their home/outside. Use Portfolio to find something that starts with a letter, demonstrate pattern building or counting.


Teachers sends out sight words and students post a picture using the words (making a sentence, acting something out).


Reading – teachers ask students to post a picture of them with the book they read  that day and have students re-tell, talk about their favorite part, etc.


Literacy – read aloud practice, student records themselves reading from a book (also works for FSL in older grades).


Digital book report – give analysis tasks and have the students respond via Portfolio.


Virtual Journals – chance for students to connect with their teacher.


Daily Physical Activity – teachers requesting student to try different activities. For example, Yoga Move of the Day – teachers post pictures of kid-friendly yoga poses and students try it and document in Portfolio.


Physical Education – track progress with weightlifting, form checks, goals.


Gratitude Posters– students make a poster of why they are thankful for front-line workers / community helpers. They can hang the art in their window and, in their reflection, they can discuss why they are thankful.


“What things did you help with at home today?” – Students post to their portfolio something they helped with (cooking, baking, cleaning, etc.).


Directed drawing videos on YouTube – post the directive drawing on Activity Feed and have students upload their final product to Portfolio (reflection could be how they felt about it, was it easy, hard? What else would they want to draw). Could also use discussions for this if you want the students to be able to see all the other students’ work.


Virtual Learning Portraits – students create virtual learning portraits inspired by an artist. Great example: artist Gregg Segal’s Daily Bread series. Students should include items that have been most important to them while they are learning from home.


Documentation of Accommodations: students can upload a picture/video of a task they’ve performed that fits their accommodations.


Figure: A math geometry portfolio displaying examples of polygons and polyhedrons.
Secondary (9-12) organizations
For secondary (9-12) organizations, the following are some ideas on how to use Brightspace Portfolio to capture evidence of learning:

Field Trips - Authentic student reflection, voice and engagement.


Outdoor Lessons - Document learning anywhere.


Oral and Music Assessments - Free up in-class time; demonstrate progression of skills.


Physical Education - Document milestones; capture learning.


Art - Track progress and development of projects.


Co-Op Work Term - Restatement and demonstration of learning. 

Figure: A physical education portfolio documenting milestones.



--------------------------------------------------


Set up the Brightspace Portfolio app

The Brightspace Portfolio app is available for download from any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®. The Brightspace Portfolio app allows students to collect evidence, and then teachers and students can log in to Brightspace from a browser and use the Brightspace Portfolio tool  to manage the evidence.
While anyone can download the Brightspace Portfolio app from the respective app stores, it cannot be used without being properly set up for classroom use by an administrator and without a classroom passcard and student passcards. 

Figure: The Brightspace Portfolio app for iOS
Choose a mode
After your shared classroom device is set up with the Brightspace Portfolio app, you can choose the following modes:
In-Class Mode provides a workflow suited to more advanced students, with opportunity to include reflections using audio or text.Figure: In-Class Mode in the Brightspace Portfolio app
In-Class With Funster provides a workflow with a fun creature to help guide early students through the process. In Funster mode, you can decide whether you want students to record reflections on their work.Figure: Funster mode in the Brightspace Portfolio app
Other modes for personal devices and shared family devices include:
My Device and At Home provide a workflow suited to more advanced students, with opportunity to include reflections using audio or text.
At Home With Funster provides a workflow with a fun creature to help guide early students through the process. In Funster mode, you can decide whether they want students to record reflections on their work.
Use the Brightspace Portfolio app in the classroom
To start collecting evidence, you must access your classroom with a passcard.
To  access your classroom with a passcard
On your class device, download Brightspace Portfolio from any global Google Play™ store or Apple App Store®.
Tap the Brightspace Portfolio icon.
Tap Class Device.
Tap one of the following:
In-Class ModeIn-Class Mode with Funster
Scan the QR code for the class passcard.Tip: For best results, D2L recommends using high-quality print-outs for passcards (1200dpi and at 100% scale) and using optimal lighting when scanning passcards.
Brightspace Portfolio identifies your class and teacher user name in Brightspace. If it is the wrong class, tap Change Course, and then scan the correct class card. Optionally, tap Advanced Options to choose the option to Allow students to select photos or videos stored on this device.
Tap Let's Go! and start collecting evidence.
Use the Brightspace Portfolio app from home
The Brightspace Portfolio Home mode  supports students, their parents and guardians, and  teachers while they are learning from home.
The Funster mode was originally designed to be very easy to use for a young student, while requiring minimal assistance from a teacher in a classroom setting. It assumes a teacher controls a shared classroom device, such as an tablet and scans the classroom card before students can use the device to capture photos and reflections. It is a great tool for a classroom and this functionality continues to exist.
When kids are all learning at home, the dynamic  changes. There might be multiple kids in a family, all in different grades with different teachers, and it would be onerous for a teacher to individually send the class card and student cards to all parents. 
As students collect evidence with the Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode, the evidence appears on the Approve Evidence page for your class in Brightspace.



--------------------------------------------------


Using the Brightspace Portfolio app in the classroom

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Set up the Brightspace Portfolio app.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.
 



--------------------------------------------------


Access your classroom with your passcard

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Collect evidence using the Brightspace Portfolio app in your classroom

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Print passcards for your classroom and learners

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Use Passcards

Passcards are unique identifiers used by the Brightspace Portfolio app on a shared classroom or shared family device. Students can use the same passcard in all the classrooms that are using the Portfolio tool.  QR codes in student passcards contain login information (including first name, last name, and user authorization token). When you use QR codes in screenshots or images, the QR codes should be blurred out to protect user privacy.
Passcards are not required to access the Portfolio tool.
There are two types of passcards: 
The classroom passcard identifies the classroom, for example, Grade 2.
A student passcard identifies a student within the classroom, for example, Clara Michaels, Grade 2. 

Figure: Examples of classroom an student passcards.
After Brightspace Portfolio is set up for a shared classroom device, you can use a shared classroom device to unlock the door to your online classroom.To use passcards
 To unlock your classroom on the device, scan the QR code on your classroom passcard. 
Ensure that each student scans the QR code on their student passcard using the shared classroom device. It allows them to collect evidence to add to their personal portfolios. 
After collecting evidence, you can manage the evidence your students added to their portfolios. For example, you can approve evidence.
Print passcards for your classroom and learners
To use Brightspace Portfolio, you must have a classroom passcode, as well as a passcode for every student in the class. At the beginning of a school year, you can print a list of all passcards in a single document. Then, you can keep the classroom passcode in a secure location, and provide the student passcodes to each student.
To print class passcards
Navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
Click Print Class Passcards.Figure: Click Print Class Passcards in the Portfolio tool.
Click Print.
In some cases, a student might lose a card, or new students might register for the class after you have printed the class passcards. You can reprint lost cards or print cards for new students from their portfolio.
To print an individual passcard for a student
Navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
From the Portfolio page, click the portfolio tile of the student who needs a new passcard.
Click Print Passcard.

Figure: Click the Print Passcard button in the Portfolio tool.

Click Print.
Download a student passcard for Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode
If a student has accidentally deleted or lost their passcard and is unable to get their passcard themselves, you can download the card for the student and email it to them.

Figure: Click the Download icon for a student passcard in the Portfolio tool
To download a passcard for a student
Navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
Click Print Class Passcards.
Click the Download icon next to the student's QR code.
Email the passcard to the student as an attachment.
Troubleshoot passcards
Do I need to scan a passcard every time I use Brightspace Portfolio?
This depends on the mode you select in the Brightspace Portfolio app: 
If you are using In-Class Mode or In-Class With Funster on a shared classroom device, you must scan the classroom passcard every time, and your students must scan their individual passcards every time. 
If you are using My Device mode on a personal device, the app remembers you after you log in.
If your students are using At Home or At Home With Funster mode on a shared family device, they must scan the student passcard every time.
No passcards appear when I click Print Passcards
If no students appear in the Portfolio page, there may be a connection issue between Brightspace and the Student Information System. Ensure that your administrator has set up your classroom to use Brightspace Portfolio, and that the student permissions are applied for Brightspace Portfolio at the Org level, not just at the course level. Ensure that the course is active, the course start date has been reached, and the course end date has not been passed.
QR codes in passcards do not work
There are potential reasons why QR codes in passcards may not work:
QR codes are too small
QR codes are low-quality printouts
QR codes were scanned in low lighting
The device camera used to scan the QR codes is older or poor quality
For best results, D2L recommends using high-quality print-outs for passcards (1200dpi and at 100% scale) and optimal lighting when scanning QR codes.
Important: D2L changed the format of the passcards to add at-home support. If you're using a printed QR code, you may need to print a new one for it to work with home mode.
Security precautions built in to the passcard system
Some parents and guardians may have the following security concerns around their child having a passcard:
Can someone access a student’s identity using the passcard? 
Could the student’s information be vulnerable if the passcard is lost or stolen? 
Could someone put inappropriate images or information into a student’s portfolio? 
Can someone use the passcard to access a student's portfolio without their permission? 
To ease their concerns, you can share the following information with parents and guardians:
A student’s passcard does not provide access to the student’s portfolio; it only identifies the student in the Brightspace Portfolio app on the classroom shared device. The Brightspace Portfolio app pushes content one way; no information is pulled from Brightspace to the shared device or the Brightspace Portfolio app.
You are always in control of the content in a student’s portfolio. Only you can access the Approve Evidence page in the Portfolio tool . If you do not approve the evidence, it does not appear in the student’s portfolio. 
Sharing evidence with parents and guardians in Brightspace Parent & Guardian is not automatic. You must deliberately choose to share a student’s evidence with parents and guardians, and they must have a Brightspace Parent & Guardian account to receive notifications about evidence in their child’s portfolio.




--------------------------------------------------


Print an individual passcard for a learner

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Security precautions built in to the passcard system

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Managing evidence with categories

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence with categories.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.
 



--------------------------------------------------


Troubleshooting: No passcards appear when I click Print Passcards

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Troubleshooting: QR codes in passcards do not work

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Troubleshooting: Do you need to scan a passcard every time you use Brightspace Portfolio?

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Brightspace Portfolio: Use passcards to collect evidence

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Use Passcards.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Using the Brightspace Portfolio app from home

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Set up the Brightspace Portfolio app.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Download a learner passcard for Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Set up the Brightspace Portfolio app.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Manage evidence

As a teacher, you can collect evidences using the Brightspace Portfolio app, add  evidences to a student's portfolio on their behalf, approve and archive evidences.
Collect evidences
Students can use the Brightspace Portfolio app on a classroom device to collect images of their best work, and record an audio reflection about their work. Older students can also record reflections using the Brightspace Portfolio app. This evidence is saved directly to the cloud location set up for the classroom. Then, students and teachers can view the evidence from within the Brightspace Portfolio tool.
You can log in to your student's accounts using the My Device mode in the Brightspace Portfolio app and capture work on behalf of students.To collect evidence on behalf of students
On your device, tap the Brightspace Portfolio icon.
Tap My Device.
Do one of the following:
Enter your Brightspace URL, and then tap Connect.Tap Scan Code and use the Brightspace Portfolio app to scan the QR code.
Enter your Brightspace credentials, and then tap Log In.
Using the camera or video function in Brightspace Portfolio, collect photo or video evidence.
Tap the thumbnail of the image or video.
From the Collected Evidence page, tap the new evidence tile to provide details. Optionally, you can tap the ellipses (...) icon in the evidence tile to upload, edit, or delete the evidence.
From the Evidence Details page, do any of the following:
In the Add a title... field, provide a title for the evidence.Tap the Microphone icon to provide an audio reflection of the evidence. Tap the icon again to play the recording. Long-press to record again.In the Write down some thoughts... field, provide a text reflection of the evidence.Pick categories to help you easily find this evidence later.
To upload the evidence, tap the Upload icon.
Tap the class folder where the students are enrolled.
Tap the student's portfolios that you want to upload the evidence to.
Tap Done.
After the evidence is uploaded to the portfolios, you are returned to the Collected Evidence page. Optionally, you can do one of the following:
To collect more evidence to add to student's portfolios, tap the camera icon. To view collected evidence in your portfolio, tap My Portfolio.
Add additional evidence to a student's portfolio
You can add additional evidence to a student's portfolio on their behalf.
To add an evidence  on a student’s behalf
Navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
                Click View By: Students.
Click a student.
Click Add to Portfolio.

Do one of the following:
						Upload a file on your computer by dragging and dropping or browsing.
						Save a link to a file from your Google Drive or Office 365 account.

Approve evidence before adding it to a portfolio
To ensure that evidence collected by students is suitable to add to their portfolios, you can configure Portfolio to allow you to approve evidence before it appears in student portfolios. From the Settings page in the Portfolio tool, you can specify the methods for adding evidence that require your approval, for example, if students are using the My Device mode, you can specify that evidence must be approved by you. Refer to the Define Portfolio class settings topic for details.
To approve evidence that a student added to their portfolio
Navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
Click Approve Evidence. By default, all unapproved evidence displays. The New icon appears on newly submitted pieces of evidence, and a numeric value appears on applicable student names, indicating the number of unapproved pieces of evidence.Figure: Click Approve Evidence to check newly submitted evidence and a numeric value on a student name, indicating the number of unapproved pieces of evidence.Note: The visual indicators are unique to each teacher. Specifically, you can check the visual indicators for new evidence based on your activity or review of the evidence. To mark evidence as viewed (no longer new), approve the new evidence.
Filter the evidence list by user or new evidence, or browse the list of evidence.
Next to the evidence tile you want to approve, click Approve to Portfolio. If the evidence isn't suitable to add to the portfolio, click Delete Permanently.
To navigate back to the main Portfolio page, click Class Portfolios.
View evidence in archived portfolios
Evidence from inactive courses is automatically archived to streamline the appearance of a student's Portfolio. When a course disappears from the student's list of active courses, the course folder and evidence captured within those courses are automatically moved into the archived year. Scenarios for when a course folder might be archived, include:
the course is made inactive
the course end date is reached
the student has unenrolled from the course
the course is deleted
A student's archived evidence can be viewed by those who have access to a student's portfolio. Teachers can leverage this functionality to review a student's past evidence of learning and personalize how or what they teach. Teachers can check a student's evidence for courses for which they are currently the teacher, as well as all archived evidence, regardless of whether they were the teacher of the course that produced the evidence. Teachers remain unable to see evidence for a student's current courses for which they are not the teacher.
When course evidence is archived, it appears in a folder containing all evidence archived in that calendar year. 
In the Portfolio tool, you can view evidence in archived portfolios, which are automatically removed from course portfolios and archived when the related courses become inactive. You can use a student's archived portfolios to demonstrate growth, reflect on past learning, and showcase their best work.
Note the following:
To view a student's archived portfolios, the student must be in the class list for an active course where you are the teacher. You cannot view evidence in active courses if you are not the teacher.
When viewing an archived portfolio, breadcrumb links display at the top of the page, allowing you to navigate back to previous pages.
When viewing archived portfolios by years or courses, filtering is disabled.
Using the Previous and Next arrow buttons in an archived portfolio navigate to active evidence.
To view evidence in archived portfolios
Navigate to  Portfolio.
Click View By: Students.
Click a student.
                From the student's portfolio, click the portfolio selector, and then select Archived Portfolios.
                From the archived portfolio page, select a year, and then an archived course. 
Add private educator notes or comments to evidence
You can add private educator notes or comments to evidence submitted by students. These private notes are not visible to students, their parents or guardians and can be used to collect assessment notes or reminders that can be used later for evaluation purposes. You have the option to share your private notes with other educators enrolled in the course, who can choose to respond by sharing their private notes. 
By default, private notes by teachers remain hidden. Notes that are not shared with other educators enrolled in the course are marked with the Hidden icon. 
Note: In archived courses, teacher roles can see shared private notes from other educators enrolled in the course. Users that do not, or no longer, have the teacher role in the archived course will not be able to see shared private notes from other educators. 

Figure: Private educator notes on evidence.
Log in to Brightspace.
From the course selector or course tiles, navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
                Navigate to an evidence tile. 
From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Add Feedback.
To expand the section, click Teacher Only.
Click Add a private note and enter the note. To share your private note with other educators in the class, click Visible. 
Click Add.




--------------------------------------------------


Manage categories

Manage evidence with categories
Brightspace Portfolio categories let you put evidence into meaningful groups. You can create categories to meet specific needs in your organization. Administrators can set up a basic set of categories that are appropriate for all organizations, and teachers can create additional categories specific to their needs. For example, teachers can  access all of the categories they create in all their classes. Teachers can also see and use any categories that were added by teachers that are also part of their class, so that co-teachers in a classroom can use the same categories. Other teachers not a part of the classroom will not see these teacher-created categories.
Note:You may be restricted by your Brightspace Portfolio administrator from adding categories. 

Figure: The Category Management page in the Portfolio tool.
You can also use filters when viewing a student's collected evidence in their portfolio.

Figure: Filter evidence in a student's portfolio.
Add a new category
 Do one of the following:From the navbar, click Admin Tools, and then, under Organization Related, click Portfolio Category Management.From the course selector or course tiles, navigate to your course. Next, click Portfolio, and then Settings.
Under Category Management, enter a new category name, for example, Biology or Grade 4.
Click Save.
Rename a category
Do one of the following:From the navbar, click Admin Tools, and then, under Organization Related, click Portfolio Category Management.From the course selector or course tiles, navigate to your course. Next, click Portfolio, and then Settings.
Under Category Name, click the category's ellipses (...) icon, and then click Rename Category.
Click Save.
Retire a category
Retiring a category prevents it from being used with new evidence; it does not remove it from existing evidence. 
 Do one of the following:From the navbar, click Admin Tools, and then, under Organization Related, click Portfolio Category Management.From the course selector or course tiles, navigate to your course. Next, click Portfolio, and then Settings.
Under Category Name, click the category's ellipses (...) icon, and then click Retire Category.
Click OK.
Add categories to evidence
From the course selector or course tiles, navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
Navigate to an evidence tile. 
From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Categorize.
Under Categorize their work, click Add Category.
In the School Categories or Class Categories tabs, click categories that apply to the evidence, for example, science and science fair.

Figure: Click categories to add them to a student's evidence.



--------------------------------------------------


Retire a category

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence with categories.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Add a new category

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence with categories.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Rename a category

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence with categories.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Approve evidence before adding it to a portfolio

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Share evidence with parents or guardians

You can share a student's evidence with parents or guardians by sending a weekly email digest about shared content in their child’s portfolio. To receive a weekly email digest, parents or guardians must have an account in Brightspace Parent & Guardian. If you attempt to share content and there is no student association with parents or guardians in Brightspace Parent & Guardian, no one receives the weekly email digest.
Note:
Parents or guardians cannot receive instant notifications from Portfolio, for example, when evidence is assessed by an instructor.
If the evidence has already been approved, the evidence appears for parents or guardians to view in Brightspace Parent & Guardian. If the evidence has not already been approved, the weekly email digest is sent when the evidence is approved by the instructor.
To share evidence with parents or guardians
From your course navbar, click Portfolio.

Click the Evidence tab.

From an evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Share with Parents/Guardians.Note: You can also share work with parents when you categorize a student's work or provide feedback. From the Parent/Guardian Sharing section in the evidence details, click Shared.Figure: Parent/Guardian Sharing indicator in evidence details




--------------------------------------------------


Spotlight evidence

When you spotlight a student's work, there is a separate section at the top of the evidence list called (Student Name)’s Spotlighted Evidence. This section allows you to spotlight a student's best work, placing it at the top of the page for parents to see first. When no evidence is highlighted, all the saved evidence is listed chronologically under (Student Name)’s Evidence.
To spotlight evidence
From your course navbar, click Portfolio.

Click the Evidence tab.

From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Spotlight Evidence.Figure: The Spotlight Evidence option of an evidence tile.
The portfolio evidence is spotlighted on the top section of the Portfolio page.



--------------------------------------------------


Perform bulk actions on evidence

From the Approve Evidence page in the Portfolio tool, you can perform bulk actions on multiple pieces of evidence for several learners. For all the unapproved pieces of evidence, you can  categorize all evidence, share all evidence with parents, and approve all evidence. 
To perform bulk action on evidence
Log in to Brightspace.
From the course selector or course tiles, navigate to your course.
From the navbar, click Portfolio.
Click Approve Evidence.

Click Bulk Actions and do one of the following:
Figure: Bulk actions you can perform on evidence.
Click Categorize All and select a category
Click Share All with Parents
Click Approve All.Note: When you click Approve All, it removes all evidence from the Approve Evidence tab. Perform the Approve All step last if you intend to perform more than one bulk action.





--------------------------------------------------


Add categories to evidence

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence with categories.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Review and assess submitted Portfolio evidence

From the main page in the Portfolio tool, the centralized navigation allows you to easily switch between viewing all student portfolios in a course or all evidence in a course.  The main Portfolio page also includes the option to view the information in a tile or list format, visual indicators to clearly identify newly submitted evidence for review, icons to indicate if certain information is present, and navigational tools to help refine your view using search, filters, and sorting. 
Note the following:

The visual indicators for new evidence display in the share with teacher workflow and approve evidence workflow. 


The visual indicators are unique to each teacher. Specifically, each teacher sees the visual indicators for new evidence based on their activity or review of the evidence. To mark evidence as viewed (no longer new), do one of the following:
Click the evidence to view it.
From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select an action.
From the Approval page, when you change the approval status of the evidence (to approve or unapprove), it is marked as viewed by the teacher who performed the action. For more information, see Manage evidence.

Open the Portfolio tool in Brightspace
The Portfolio tool appears on the navbar in Brightspace. If you are using In-Class or At Home mode on the Brightspace Portfolio app, the first time you use the Portfolio tool, you print class passcards that allow students to capture evidence with the Brightspace Portfolio app. After that, you can view student portfolios and approve evidence that your students have captured using the Brightspace Portfolio app.
Tip: To learn more about downloading and logging into the Brightspace Portfolio app, click Log Into the App.
Open the Portfolio tool
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to Portfolio.

Figure: Select the Portfolio tool in Brightspace.
View course portfolios
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to Portfolio.
Choose a view:View By: Students (students) - displays all student portfolios in the course.When viewing by Students, the following information may display: A numeric value and New Evidence indicate the number of newly submitted pieces of evidence.Evidence CollectedEvidence Shared with Parents/Guardians (if Brightspace Parent & Guardian is enabled)Unapproved EvidenceView By: Evidence - displays all evidence  in the course.When viewing by Evidence, the following information may display: A New icon indicates newly submitted pieces of evidence.Shared With Parents/Guardians (if Brightspace Parent & Guardian is enabled)Feedback ProvidedCategorizedSpotlighted Evidence
Choose a format:
Tiles - displays information in a tile format.List - displays information in a list format.
To view more information about a student's course portfolio or a piece of evidence, click the tile or list item.
If you are viewing a student's portfolio, all course portfolios display for that student. After reviewing the student's portfolio, you can choose another student from the student selector, or switch between students by clicking the Previous and Next arrow buttons.  If you are viewing all evidence in a course, all evidence in the course displays, organized by student. You can filter the evidence by category. Click Filter, select School Categories or Class Categories, and then select one or more categories. For more information, see Filter all evidence.

Figure: Select the View By: Students  in Portfolio.

Figure:  Select the View By: Evidence  in Portfolio.

Figure: View evidence in a student's portfolio.
Filter all evidence
To allow you to more easily find new or specific types of evidence for review, Brightspace Portfolio includes filtering options when you view by evidence. For example, you can filter  by new evidence or evidence containing feedback.
Note: Although you can filter by new evidence, the Portfolio tool also includes the following visual indicators to allow you to more easily identify new evidence for review:

When viewing evidence from the main Portfolio page, the New icon appears on newly submitted pieces of evidence.


When viewing student portfolios from the main Portfolio page, a numeric value and New Evidence appear on applicable student portfolios, indicating the number of new pieces of evidence.


When viewing evidence from the Approval page, the New icon appears on newly submitted pieces of evidence, and a numeric value appears on applicable student names, indicating the number of unapproved pieces of evidence. 

To filter all evidence
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
Click View By: Evidence.
				Click Filter, and then select one or more Evidence filters. 			For example, to easily find evidence in a specific category, click With Categories, and then click the School Categories filter and choose a specific school category.
To remove an active filter, click X on the filter next to Applied Filters or click Filter and select the active filter.
Download evidence from a portfolio
You can download evidence for offline evaluation.
Note: When downloading image evidence for viewing, the evidence is downloaded in the original file type and resolution. For example, if a student uploads a full resolution JPEG file, the image may adjust size and resolution in the Portfolio viewer; however, an teacher downloading the image downloads a full resolution JPEG file.
To download evidence from a portfolio
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
Navigate to an evidence tile. 
Click the evidence tile. 
From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Download. 
Delete evidence from a portfolio
In some cases, you may need to delete evidence from a student’s portfolio, for example, the student took a poor-quality picture or they added unsuitable evidence to their portfolio.
To delete evidence from a portfolio
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
                Navigate to an evidence tile. 
From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Delete.
Click OK.
Add course outcomes to evidence
In Course Admin, you can map course materials to learning outcomes by importing learning outcomes from the Achievement Standards Network or by manually creating appropriate outcomes. When the learning outcomes are mapped to a course, you can then map learning outcomes you've added to a course to specific Brightspace Portfolio evidence. This allows you to better communicate to parents and guardians (using Brightspace Parent & Guardian) and students (using Brightspace Portfolio) how the evidence supports learning. For example, one of the course outcomes for an art class project might be: Apply the creative process to produce a variety of two- and three-dimensional art works, using elements, principles, and techniques of visual arts to communicate feelings and ideas.
Note the following:
In order to add course outcomes to evidence, your course must have the Learning Outcomes tool enabled by your administrator. 
To import standards from the Achievement Standards Network and to copy standard requirements between courses, ensure you have the Manage Outcomes permission at the course offering level.
The language term used to describe learning outcomes depends on the value set for the d2l.Languages.Terminology.LearningOutcomes configuration variable. For example, the Learning Outcomes tool or the Outcomes tab in an assignment can be labeled as Competencies, Expectations, Objectives, Outcomes, or Standards. By default, the Learning Outcomes tool displays as the Standards tool in the Admin Tools menu.
To add course outcomes to evidence
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
Do one of the following:If the evidence has been approved, on the Class Portfolios tab, browse to the student portfolio.If the evidence has not been approved, on the Approve Evidence tab, browse to the student.
From the evidence tile menu, click the evidence you want to add course outcomes to.
From the Student & Parent list, under Outcomes, click Add Outcomes.
From the list, select course outcomes related to the student's work.
Click Add.

Figure: Add course outcomes added to a student's evidence.
Add rubrics to evidence
You can add one or more rubrics to a student's evidence and make it visible to them. You can then evaluate against the rubric, which is auto-saved and published. Students and parents (if shared with parents) can view your feedback, including criteria, level of achievement, and feedback associated to the specific criteria.
Note the following:
When adding a rubric to evidence, the Add Rubric button only displays if there is a rubric available to that org unit that can be added.
To assess a rubric attached to evidence, you must have the See Rubrics permission, assigned to you by your administrator.
To add a rubric to evidence
Note: Ensure that the rubric you want to add exists in the Rubrics tool, and make it visible to students.
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
Navigate to an evidence tile.
From the evidence tile you want to attach a rubric to, click the (...) Options menu and select Add Feedback.
In the Rubrics area, click Add Rubric.
From the available list, select one or more rubrics. 
Click Add Selected. 

Figure: Add an evaluated rubric to a portfolio evidence.
After a rubric is attached, it appears in the Rubrics area of the evidence.
Evaluate evidence using a rubric
You can evaluate evidence using a rubric in Portfolio.
To evaluate evidence using a rubric
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
Navigate to an evidence tile.
From the evidence tile you want to evaluate, click the (...) Options menu and select Add Feedback.
In the Rubrics area, click the rubric attached to the evidence.
Select the levels of achievement the student has achieved.
Complete any additional feedback you want to add.
Add feedback to evidence
Feedback that teachers provide is visible to students. If the evidence is shared with parents and guardians using Brightspace Parent & Guardian, they can also see the teacher feedback.
To add feedback to evidence
Navigate to your course.
From your course homepage, navigate to  Portfolio.
Navigate to an evidence tile. 
From the evidence tile, click the (...) Options menu and select Add Feedback.
Under Teacher Feedback, add feedback about the student evidence.
Click Add.




--------------------------------------------------


Archive evidence

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.



--------------------------------------------------


Add private educator notes or comments to evidence

This topic has been  moved to a new location.
The content you are trying to access is now at Manage evidence.
Please update your bookmark.
This page will be permanently removed on April 4, 2024.
 



--------------------------------------------------


Assess student work against learning outcomes

After you have aligned standards to Rubrics, Assignments, Discussions, Brightspace Portfolio evidence, and Quizzes, you can assess standards in each of these tools. If you have previously mapped learning outcomes to an achievement scale, the suggested achievement level is based on this mapping. 
When you are using a screen reader or keyboard-only navigation, criterion level rows behave as radio buttons. When a radio button has the focus, criterion levels indicate the level name and point value of each radio button. Depending on the screen reader you use, the way of listing all the radio buttons on a page differs. For example, In NVDA, press INSERT+F7; in JAWS, press CTRL+INSERT+A. In general, D2L tests compatibility with the following screen readers: NVDA, JAWS, and Voiceover.
Note: For users who are using a mouse for navigation and to complete the assessment, there are no visible radio buttons; hover to read the description and click to select the criterion as appropriate.
 



--------------------------------------------------


Assess learning outcomes in rubric criteria

After aligning learning outcomes to rubric criteria and attaching the completed rubric to an activity (discussion topic or assignment), use the scale to assess learners against the specified learning outcomes in the activity. For example, in an assignment, a learner might receive Meets Expectations for the Outcome: demonstrate scientific investigation skills (related to both inquiry and research) in the four areas of skills (initiating and planning, performing and recording, analyzing and interpreting, and communicating). 

Figure: The Outcomes drop-down pane for a user submission.
If your administrator mapped achievement levels to percentage scores and enabled suggestions, suggested levels of achievement display below the rubric when you perform your assessment. This provides you with an idea of suitable assessments for learning outcomes based on the rubric (which must be point-based). You can choose to override the suggested level of achievement for learners, allowing you to exercise your professional judgment when it comes to learner achievement. If the rubric is not point-based, the mapping does not exist, or your administrator disabled suggestions, you can assess the learning outcomes; however, suggested levels of achievement do not display. 

Figure: Instructors can use their judgment to change the suggested outcome achievement level.
After you publish your assessments, learners can view them wherever they can view assessed rubrics. This allows learners to understand their progress against learning outcomes and rubric criteria and locate areas for improvement.



--------------------------------------------------


Manually map achievement levels to Rubric levels

Achievement levels can be mapped to points-based, custom points-based, and percentage scale-based rubrics. However, it is possible to manually adjust the alignments. 
Ensure that when you created the rubric for the course, in the Rubric Options, under Learning Outcomes, you selected   Manually map achievement levels to rubric levels. 
Ensure that the scale level names in the Achievement Levels row of the rubric appear as expected.
Do one of the following: Click the circle that delineates the scale level threshold marker and drag it to a new location.Using a keyboard, tab to the circular drag handle to select it, Then, use the left and right arrow keys to move the threshold marker to a new location.
When you complete the edits to the rubric, click Close.
Note: This feature only appears when the scale has percentage values defined and is only enabled for points-based and custom points-based rubrics. For no score rubrics, the threshold marker placement is suggested and adjustable since there is no score calculation in the rubric.



--------------------------------------------------


Reviewing suggested achievement outcomes

To set assessment suggestions
On the assignment submission page for the learner, open the rubric for assessment.Figure: Opening a rubric in the Assignment Submission page.
On the pop-up rubric assessment, you can scroll over the target icon to review which standards are aligned to each criterion.Figure: The Essay Rubric page showing a standard.
For each criteria row in the rubric, click to select the assessment level and click Add Feedback if you want to include additional feedback for each criteria row in the rubric. Changes are automatically saved.Figure: A marked rubric.
Review the suggested achievement levels for each assessment outcome.
Explaining Assessment Suggestions with a Scenario
Consider a scenario in which the Mathematics Specific Expectation 1.1 learning outcome is aligned to Criterion 1 and Criterion 2. The learner has achieved 10 points (Criterion 1) and 3 points (Criterion 2) for a total of 13 out of a possible 20 points, or 65%. The achievement scale previously set up has a threshold between the 2 levels at 70%. 

Figure: The Levels of achievement page set to define the colors, words, and percentage of each level.
On the assessment panel for the standards on this assignment, the suggested assessment of Not Yet appears for the Mathematics Specific Expectation 1.1. Mathematics Expectation 1.2 was only aligned to Criterion 1, which earned 100%, so the suggested assessment is Got it.

Figure: Two standards with suggested levels of achievement. These can be changed if appropriate.
Other standards that were aligned directly to the assignment and not to the rubric are still available to be assessed as usual but do not show suggestions. These are not shown in the previous image. 



--------------------------------------------------


Reviewing suggested achievement levels

 For suggested achievement levels to appear in assignments and discussions, all of the following conditions must be met:
An instructor makes an assessment on a rubric that has outcomes aligned to criteria.
There are mappings set up between the rubric and the assessment outcomes.
A default achievement scale has been defined for the organization
Suggestions are turned on using the d2l.tools.LearningOutcomes.LoaSuggestions configuration variable.
When these conditions are met, a suggested achievement level is automatically displayed based on point thresholds or scale alignment levels mapped in the rubric. The instructor can accept the suggested achievement level, or select a different level, based on a more holistic evaluation of the learner's effort.

Figure: Rubric items aligned with outcomes provide information results in suggested achievement levels, which can be adjusted by instructors.
To review rubric mapping and use suggested achievement outcomes
Using a rubric that is mapped to assessment outcomes, grade a learner submission.
Review the suggested achievement levels for each assessment outcome.
If any suggestions are not accurate for the learner, click to select a different level of achievement.




--------------------------------------------------


Assessing assignment submissions

About assessing assignments
There are several ways you can assess assignments:
Use built-in annotation tools to mark up submissions using highlighting, free-hand drawing, shapes, and associated commenting.
Evaluate anonymous student submissions to remove bias in the grading process.
Evaluate submissions and leave feedback directly on the Submission page.
Evaluate submissions directly within attached rubrics and leave feedback directly on the Submission page.
Evaluate external submissions and leave feedback in an assignment.
If Similarity Report is enabled at your organization, you can use the Online Grading functionality to add comments, insert inline text, and highlight sections in file submissions directly in Assignments. You can also allow submissions with any file type, allow late submissions, enable anonymous marking, and allow students to view Similarity Reports.
Download student submissions and leave feedback within the files, then upload them back into the appropriate assignment  so they appear as attachments to each student's submission evaluation. 
Navigate submissions with various filters. The default search filters are Show everyone (for individual assignments) and Show all groups (for group assignments).
The grades you manually enter  for quizzes, discussions, and assignments grade items are  automatically synchronized back to Quizzes, Discussions, and Assignments. 
Note: Assignments  and Discussions grades are synchronized when the tools are updated by the Brightspace API or when you import your grade book via CSV, TSV, or Excel.
Video: Grade Submissions in Assignments

Video: Grade Assignment Submissions Offline

View an assignment's Submission log
You must have the See and Manage Assignments and View Submitted Files permissions to view the Submission Log.
The Submissions area of Assignments has a log that you can filter to determine when a student submitted a file, and whether the student or teacher deleted the submission. 
On the Assignments page, from the context menu of an assignment, click Submission Log.
Filter the log as applicable, by Submitted (shows all submissions), Deleted, Restored, or Started. 
Sort by Date.
Evaluate assignment submissions from the Classic Content Experience
You can evaluate a student's assignment submissions from the Classic Content Experience even if the student didn't submit anything to the assignment. As a result, you can assign comments and grades to students with no submissions (for example, a grade of 0) and to students who submitted work outside of Brightspace. 
To evaluate assignment submissions from the Classic Content Experience
From your course navbar, click  Content.
In the  Table of Contents pane, click on the module that contains the assignment for which you want to evaluate submissions.
Click on the assignment.
In the Completion Summary tab, click on a student's name.Figure: Click on the Completion Summary tab to view a list of students.
Enter your feedback in the Overall Feedback area.
Do one of the following:To publish your feedback, click Publish.To save your feedback without publishing, click Save Draft.
Do one of the following:To navigate to the next student in the list, click the Next button.To stop evaluating students, click Back to Folder Submissions.
The assignment submission is evaluated.
Restore a deleted submission
You must have the See and Manage Assignments and View Submitted Files permissions to view the Submission Log.
Do one of the following:In the context menu for an assignment, click Submission Log.On the Submissions page for an assignment, click Submission Log.
In the entry for the deleted submission, click Restore.




--------------------------------------------------


Assessing assignment submissions against standards

On the assignment submission page, a learner can only see a read-only list of the standards which have been aligned to assignment. After the assignment is submitted, you can assess the assignment on the evaluation page for the submission. 
In the assessment panel, click Standards to expand the collapsed section.
Review the suggested achievement levels, and if necessary, manually adjust the levels based on professional judgment and discretion.
Figure: Suggested achievement levels that can be manually adjusted.
After you publish the feedback, the learner can see the results of the assessment as well as the rest of the feedback on their assignment submission.



--------------------------------------------------


Assessing discussion threads

You can assess discussion threads against standards (also known as learning outcomes) aligned to a discussion topic. This allows you to easily assess student progress against standards in Discussions. Students can view the results of your assessment, making it easier for them to understand their progress against a standard, and locate areas for improvement.Note: The d2l.Languages.Terminology.LearningOutcomes enables you to choose your preferred terminology for learning outcomes in the Brightspace. By default, this configuration variable is set to Standards however, other options include Expectations, Competencies, Objectives, or Outcomes. 
When you assess a discussion thread, a section for measuring standards displays. Using the scale defined by an administrator, you measure the student's achievement in each standard, for example, Does Not Meet Expectations, Meets Expectations, or Exceeds Expectations.
After you publish the assessment of the discussion thread, the student navigates to the discussion topic and views the assessment.
Requirements
The d2l.Tools.LearningOutcomes.LoaSuggestions configuration variable must be turned on to enable achievement suggestions. 
To use standards, your administrator must define a scale for your organization that measures achievement in a course. In addition, you must import or create standards in your course.
Adding a rubric to a discussion is optional; it is not required for assessing standards.
Students cannot view your assessment of standards in a discussion thread until you publish it.
Standards may be directly aligned to the discussion topic or may be indirectly aligned through the Rubric that is being used to evaluate the topic. Assessment of standards is available in the Discussion tool regardless of which method is used to align outcomes to the topic.
To incorporate a word count as part of your assessment of discussion posts, your administrator can turn on the  d2l.Tools.Discuss.TextStats.DisplayWordCount configuration variable. When turned on, a visual word count becomes visible in the Brightspace Editor for discussion posts. All words in a discussion post are counted, including filler words such as “the,” “if,” and “to.” The word count is dynamically displayed to students while they type in the Brightspace Editor (Discussions Reading View only) and it also appears next to posts they have created in the Discussions Reading View and Grid View. Students can view the word count for their posts only. The word count appears on the Assessment page during the discussions assessment process and it also appears inline with the post details in the Discussions Reading View and Grid View. You can view the word count for all user posts. Note: To view student word counts in a non-assessment view (the Discussions Reading View and Grid View), instructors require the Edit any Post permission. To view student word counts in an assessment view, instructors do not require the Edit any Post permission. Instructors that have permission to assess discussions can see the word count in that assessment view.




--------------------------------------------------


Assessing discussion topic responses against a learning objective

You can assess a discussion topic response to determine if it meets learning objectives.
Note: To have assessment options available and assess a discussion topic responses  you must associate your discussion topic with a learning objective or rubric. The name of learning objectives and some associated menu items and links depend on the language term defined by your organization. Based on that setting, Objectives  might be labeled Competencies, Expectations, Standards, or Learning Outcomes. Refer to Assessing discussion threads for more information.
Refer to Create a rubric using the Rubrics tool for more information about creating a rubric. 
Refer to Create and delete grade categories and items to learn more about creating grade items.
To assess a discussion topic response
From your course navbar, navigate to Discussions.
Click the Actions icon next to a discussion topic response, and select Assess Topic.Figure: Select Assess Topic.
Click the Assessments tab.
Click on a user's name to open their discussion topic response.
Under the Standards area, select the appropriate level of achievement for the learner for each standard.Note: If the rubric used to evaluate the discussion topic is points-based or custom-points based and the achievement scale has percentage levels defined, or if the achievement scale levels have been manually mapped to the rubric evaluation levels, then suggested levels of achievement will be displayed for each of the indirectly aligned outcomes which is attached to the rubric.  The directly aligned outcomes will not have an achievement suggestion.Figure: The Standards page showing the achievements met by a user.
Click Publish to complete the assessment and make it available to your student.




--------------------------------------------------


Assess users in discussion threads

You can assess learners' participation in discussion topics from within threads for topics to which you've added an assessment. In the Assess Post pop-up, you can view the post you are assessing, along with any attached rubrics and fields to add in personal feedback. 
If your topic is moderated, you must approve posts before you can assess them. To assess individual posts, you must edit the topic to enable the Allow assessment of individual posts check box in the Assessment tab.
To assess users in discussion threads
From Course Admin, click Discussions.
On the Discussions List page, click the topic you want to assess.
Depending on your view settings, do one of the following:In Reading view, instructors can assess an individual learner while viewing all of a learner's posts together on one screen. Click the context menu beside a thread name and select Assess Student. In Grid view, instructors can select either the thread or reply for a post. Click the More Actions button and then select Assess to assess the individual learner. 
In the pop-up dialog box, do any of the following:If assessment of individual posts is enabled and you are in Reading View, enter a score in the Score column beside each post you want to assess. If assessment of individual posts is enabled and you are in Grid View, add the assessment in the Post Score field.If assessment of individual posts is not enabled, enter a score in the Topic Score field. This score is the assessment you are providing to the learner for participation in the topic.Complete each rubric by choosing a level and entering feedback for each criterion. The Total calculates automatically based on the rubric criteria, or you can manually enter the Total and override the calculation. Note that the calculated or chosen Total is automatically populated in the Topic Score field. To return the Topic Score to the calculated score from the rubric, click Clear Override.If learning outcomes are aligned to the discussion topic, using the scale defined by an administrator, assess the learner's progress against each learning outcome.  For example, achievement levels might include the following: Does Not Meet Expectations, Meets Expectations, and Exceeds Expectations.In the General Feedback field, enter feedback comments.
Click Save Draft to retain the assessment results and publish later. Click Publish to immediately release the assessment results to the learner in Assignments, Discussions, Grades, Content, and User Progress simultaneously. 
            Video: Assess from Within a Thread
            Video: Grade a Discussion Topic



--------------------------------------------------


Creating and editing competencies, learning objectives, and activities

Video: Incorporate Activities

Note: For more information about comparing and contrasting the Competencies tool and the Learning Outcomes tool, refer to About Learning Outcomes. 



--------------------------------------------------


Understanding competency status settings

When you create a competency, each status setting you can select contains different restrictions on what can be done with the competency once it is created.
The following table indicates the different restrictions to  a competency, depending on it's state.
Competency restrictions based upon state

The competency


Draft 


In Review 


Approved


Archived 


Not Ready


is visible to course participants?


No


No


Yes


No


No


can be completed?


No


No


Yes


No 


No


description can be changed?


Yes


Yes


No


No


Yes


visibility can be changed?


Yes


Yes


Yes


Yes


Yes


allows you to add parent-child associations to it?


Yes


Yes


No


No


Yes


allows you to remove parent-child associations from it?


Yes


Yes


No


No


Yes


allows you to edit associated learning objectives' descriptions?


Yes


Yes


No


No


Yes


allows you to associate activities with learning objectives within its structure?


Yes


Yes


Yes


Yes


Yes


status can be changed?


Yes


Yes


Yes


Yes


Yes

Note:
If the Competencies status settings option is disabled by your system administrator, existing competencies that have a Draft, In Review, or Archived status will appear with a Not Ready status.
Competencies with a Not Ready status are hidden from course participants. They cannot be completed or evaluated even if users attempt associated learning objectives and activities. You can clear a not ready status by going to the competency's Edit Competency page and clicking Save. 
You cannot revert an approved competency back to Not Ready.




--------------------------------------------------


Delete a competency

You can delete a competency.
Note: You cannot delete disabled competencies which include:
Competencies with an approved status
Competencies with an archived status
Competencies shared to you from another org unit
Deleting a competency element does not delete the entire competency structure. But deleting a competency element will delete users' results for the competency. If you want to keep users' results, consider archiving your competency instead.
To delete a competency
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, from the More Actions button, click  Delete.
Select the check boxes beside the competencies you want to delete.Figure: Select the competencies you want to delete.
Click Delete Selected.




--------------------------------------------------


Create a competency

Competencies enable you to evaluate a learner's knowledge and abilities as they participate in courses or other learning experiences. 
To create a competency
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, from the New button, click Competency.Figure: Use the New Competency page to name and setup your competency.
Enter your New Competency details. 
To share the competency with users, in the Evaluation Settings section, select the Make competency and its children visible to users check box.
If you are creating a competency in an org unit above the course offering level, you can click Add Org Units to share the competency with org units beneath it. 
In the Achievement Criteria section, select how users can achieve a competency.
You can also create competencies from an element's Structure area. In the Edit Structure tab, expand the Add Parent or Add Child option, and click New Competency.
Watch how to create a competencyAbout competency versions
Depending on your settings, competency elements may have a Ready for Versioning property that you can enable to let the system track a previous definition of a competency each time you save your changes. Beginning with Version 1, Version numbers increment by 1. Competency version information can show every element in the competency structure except activities.
You cannot edit previous competency versions; however, your organization may track competency versions to review past changes to a competency structure's definition.



--------------------------------------------------


Modify an approved competency

On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click the competency that you want to modify.
From the Status list, change the selection from Approved to Draft or In Review.
Click Save. Users who are working on the competency can no longer see it.
On the Competency Home page, click the competency again.
Make your changes.
From the Status list, change the selection to Approved.




--------------------------------------------------


Copy a competency

Copied elements are saved in the same org unit as the original element. If you want a child org unit to have the same competency or competency structure, you can share it. 
To copy a competency
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, from the More Actions button, click Copy. 
Click Competency. 
Select your Competency to Copy from the drop-down list. Figure: Select from an existing course competency.
Enter a New Competency Name. 
Select a New Competency Status. 
Choose your copy options. 
Click Continue and make your changes in the New Name column. 
Click Finish.




--------------------------------------------------


Copy a learning objective

You can copy an existing learning objective from the Competencies tool.
To copy a learning objective
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, from the More Actions button, click  Copy > Learning Objective.
From the Learning Objective to Copy drop-down list, choose a learning objective.Figure:  Select from an existing learning objective.
In the New Learning Objective Name field, enter a name.
In the Copy Children section, choose an option.
Click Continue > Finish.




--------------------------------------------------


Create a learning objective

Use learning objectives to represent the things that a person needs to learn to acquire a competency or become competent in each domain. 
To create a learning objective
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, from the New button, click Learning Objective.Figure: Use the New Learning Objective page to name and setup your learning objective.
Enter your new learning objective details.
If you are ready to allow users access to the learning objective, in the Ready for evaluation section, select Yes. 
You can also create a learning objective from an element's Structure area. In the Edit Structure tab, expand the Add Parent or Add Child option and click New Learning Objective.
Watch how to create a learning objective



--------------------------------------------------


Delete a learning objective

You can delete a learning objectives.
Note: You cannot delete disabled learning objective types which include: 
Learning objectives attached to an approved competency
Learning objectives attached to an archived competency (deletion would change the competency’s definition)
Learning objectives shared to you from another org unit
Deleting elements that are part of a competency structure can cause re-evaluations. If you delete all learning objectives associated with a competency, users who completed the competency will have their results changed to the Incomplete status. This is because an element is only considered complete if all of its children are complete; elements that have no children cannot be completed.
To delete a learning objective
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, from the More Actions button, click Delete.
Select the check boxes beside the learning objectives you want to delete.Figure: Select the learning objectives that you want to delete.
Click Delete Selected.




--------------------------------------------------


Associating activities

Activities are created inside a course offering and are the only competency structure elements that can be assessed. You can set up flexible competency structures and associate multiple learning objectives with an activity or associate multiple activities to a learning objective.
The following are ways you can associate activities to learning objectives:
Association only (no assessment) - You can assign this type of association to activities that are part of a learning objective's coverage, but do not require any formal assessment. This association type has no impact on competency structure completion and does not affect competency or learning objective evaluations.
Association with rubric assessment - You can assign this type of association to activities if you want to assess users, but you do not want assessment to affect competency or learning objective evaluations within a competency structure. This is useful if you are creating diagnostic or formative assessments.
Association with rubric assessment and threshold criterion - You can assign this type of association to activities if you want to assess users and make the assessment a requirement for competency structure completion. The threshold is the minimum required rubric level or percentage score a user must achieve in the assessment to complete the associated learning objective.
Watch how to add and remove associations





--------------------------------------------------


How an automatic evaluation is initiated

Automatic evaluation can be initiated for approved competencies and learning objectives that are set to Ready for evaluation. If your organization enabled the Status settings option, only approved competencies (including approved competencies that you edit in draft mode and re-approve) can be re-evaluated. If your organization disabled the Status settings option, any competency changes you make can also initiate re-evaluation.
The following actions can initiate an automatic evaluation for an approved competency:
Completing a child competency or learning objective.
Adding parents or children to an associated learning objective.
Removing parents or children from an associated learning objective.
Changing or removing an activity’s achievement threshold.
Changing an activity's assessment method (this erases the previous rubric or numeric assessment for that activity).
Sharing or unsharing competencies with a child org unit.
The following actions can initiate an automatic evaluation for a learning objective that is set to Ready for evaluation:
Completing a child learning objective or activity.
Adding or removing a child learning objective or activity.
Changing or removing an activity's achievement threshold.
Changing an activity's assessment method (this erases the previous rubric or numeric assessment for that activity).
Sharing or unsharing learning objectives with a child org unit (learning objectives are automatically shared if you share its associated parent competencies).
Understanding automatic evaluation
The competency, learning objective, and activity evaluation system automatically evaluates users as they work through competency structures. If you modify competency structures that users are currently working on, the evaluation system can also automatically re-evaluate each user's progress to determine if they meet the new requirements and update their results accordingly.



--------------------------------------------------


Types of activities

Activities allow you to assess students' content comprehension via activities like quizzes, assignments, surveys, and more. There are several types of activities each with different methods for assessing students:
Quiz activity: Assessed by a student’s quiz score, the score of specific quiz questions, or a rubric.
Survey activity: Assessed by a rubric. You cannot associate anonymous survey activities with learning objectives.
Assignments activity: Assessed by a rubric.
Discussion activity: Assessed by a rubric.
Grade Item activity: Assessed by a numeric score or a rubric.
Content activity: You can associate modules and topics in the Content tool with learning objectives, but you cannot assess them with a numeric score or rubric.
Manual Assessment activity: Are not created with Brightspace course tools. They can be activities such as a live presentation, a musical recital, community service hours, and extracurricular activities. Manual Assessment activities are assessed by a rubric.




--------------------------------------------------


Allow automatic competency evaluation after a user achieves a competency

After a student achieves a competency, they are not automatically reevaluated for the competency unless you set evaluation settings to do so.
Navigate to Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click Search.
In the Search For... field, enter the competency you are searching for or select the competency from the below list.

Figure: Click Search to look for your desired competency.
In the Evaluating Settings section, select Allow re-evaluation of users who have achieved this competency.

Figure: Click Allow re-evaluation of users who have achieved this competency to automate competency evaluation.
Click Save.
You have allowed automatic competency evaluation.



--------------------------------------------------


Turn off automatic competency evaluation

You can disable automatic evaluations for users (even if they have not achieved a competency) by clearing the Can be Evaluated role permission. Your organization's administrator can disable the automatic evaluation by turning off the d2l.Tools.Competencies.Settings.AutomaticReeval configuration variable. If automatic evaluation is disabled, users need to manually initiate evaluation for each element.



--------------------------------------------------


Manually initiate an evaluation

If your organization uses manual evaluation, a notice about an outdated competency or learning objective appears on the Results page of every element affected by the change. For example, if an activity’s Achievement threshold changes, the notice appears on the Results page of the activity and its parents, all the way up the structure to the competency.
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, do one of the following:
To re-evaluate a competency or learning objective, click the competency or learning objective that you want to re-evaluate. Click  Results > Re-evaluate.
To re-evaluate an activity, on the Edit Learning Objective page, click Structure. Click the activity that you want to re-evaluate.
Re-evaluation requests are placed in a queue and processed in sequence. Depending on the number of requests already in the queue, there might be a delay between the time of your request and when users are re-evaluated.



--------------------------------------------------


Evaluate survey activities

Navigate to Surveys. 
From the context menu of the survey you want to evaluate, click  Statistics. 
Click the Overall Results link for the user you want to evaluate. 
In the Objective-based Assessment section, fill in the rubric assessment for each associated learning objective. 




--------------------------------------------------


Evaluate quiz activity manually

If you select an analytic rubric with multiple criteria, you must score it manually. This type of assessment can be useful if you need to make an informed judgment when grading submissions such as long answers and essay questions. When you incorporate an activity with a learning objective in the Competencies tool, set the assessment type to Rubric and select an analytic rubric item to configure a quiz activity or grade item activity for manual evaluation. 
To evaluate quiz activity manually
On the navbar, click Quizzes. 
On the Manage Quizzes page, from the context menu of the quiz you want to evaluate, click Grade. 
Click the Overall Grade link for the user you want to evaluate. 
In the Objective-based Assessment section of the Grade Attempt page, fill in the associated rubric. 
            Video: Manually Grade a Quiz



--------------------------------------------------


Evaluate grade item activity manually

If you select an analytic rubric with multiple criteria, you must score it manually. This type of assessment can be useful if you need to make an informed judgment when grading submissions such as long answers and essay questions. When you incorporate an activity with a learning objective in the Competencies tool, set the assessment type to Rubric and select an analytic rubric item to configure a quiz activity or grade item activity for manual evaluation. 
To evaluate a grade item activity manually
On your course homepage, navigate to Grades. 
In the Enter Grades tab, from the context menu of the grade item you want to assess, click Enter Grades. 

Figure: Click the context menu and select Enter Grades.
Click  Objective-based Assessment for the user you want to evaluate. 
Fill in the associated rubric. 
Click Save.
You have evaluated a grade item activity manually.



--------------------------------------------------


Associate a learning objective with an activity

Use learning objectives to represent the things that a person needs to learn to acquire a competency or become competent in each domain. You can associate learning objectives with activities.
To associate a learning objective with an activity
Navigate to Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click the learning objective that you want to associate with an activity.
Click  Structure.
In the Edit Structure tab, click Add Child.
Click Incorporate Activities.Figure: Click Incorporate Activities to select an activity to associate with a specific learning objective.
Click the activity type that you want to add and enter the required details.
Click Add.




--------------------------------------------------


Understanding competency structures and associations

Incorporate quizzes, surveys, and other activities into competency structures to introduce assessable elements that can be used for automatic competency completion tracking.
            Video: Incorporate Activities



--------------------------------------------------


Associate a competency structure element with another existing element

The most fundamental structure must contain at least one competency, one learning objective, and one activity. Add associations between these elements to create your competency structure.
To associate a competency element with another
Navigate to Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click the element that you want to associate with existing elements.
Click Structure.
In the Edit Structure tab, do one of the following: 
Click to expand Add parent to this competency and select Existing Competency or New Competency.Click to expand Add child to this competencyand select Existing Competency, New Competency,  Existing Learning Objective, or New Learning Objective.Figure: Choose to add a parent or a child to your competency.
Click the element type that you want to associate with your competency structure.
Select the check box beside each element that you want to associate and click Add Selected.




--------------------------------------------------


Associate a learning objective with a grade item

On the navbar, click Grades.
From the Manage Grades  page, open the context menu for the grade item you want to associate with a learning objective.
Select Edit Grade Item, and click the Objectives tab.
Click Associate Learning Objectives.
Check the box for any learning objectives you want to add, and click Add Selected.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Associate a learning objective with an assignment

On the navbar, click Assignments.
Edit the assignment  you want to associate with a learning objective.
Click the Objectives tab.
Click Associate Learning Objectives.
Check the box for any learning objectives you want to add, and click Add Selected.
Click Save and Close.




--------------------------------------------------


Remove an association between competency structure elements

You can remove associations between elements without deleting either element.
To remove associations between competency elements
Navigate to Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click the element with associations that you want to remove.
Click  Structure.
In the Edit Structure tab, select the check boxes beside the association(s) that you want to remove.
Click the  Remove Associations from Selected icon.Figure: Select the associated element and then click the Remove Associations from Selected icon.
Click OK.
The elements are no longer associated but are not deleted.



--------------------------------------------------


Remove associations between a learning objective and an activity from another tool area

You can remove associations between elements without deleting either element.
Navigate to the tool that corresponds with the activity that you want to remove associations from.
Do one of the following: On the Assignments page, from the context menu of the assignment with associations that you want to remove, click  Edit Assignment.On the Manage Quizzes page, click the quiz with associations that you want to remove.On the Manage Surveys page, click the survey with associations that you want to remove.On the Manage Grades page, click the grade item with associations that you want to remove.On the Discussions List page, from the context menu of the topic with associations that you want to remove, click  Edit Topic.
In the Objectives tab, from the context menu of the associated learning objective that you want to remove, click Remove Learning Objective.




--------------------------------------------------


Share a competency structure

You can create competency structures in an org unit and share them to child org units beneath it. A child org unit's Competencies tool displays the  Shared Competency icon beside each shared competency, and the  Shared Learning Objective icon beside each learning objective nested in a shared competency. In a child org unit you can associate its learning objectives and activities with shared competency structures. You cannot share activity elements between org units.
The only elements shared to you by the parent org unit that you can modify are the Make competency and its children visible to users property and the learning objectives Ready for evaluation property. If you have never modified these properties within a child org unit, they will always contain the same settings as the original elements in the parent org unit. If you change these properties in a child org unit, the property setting in the shared element becomes independent of the property settings set in the parent org unit.
To share a competency structure
On the My Home page, navigate to Competencies.
On the org level Competency Home page, click the competency or competency structure that you want to share.
In the Make Competency Available To section, click Add Org Units.
For each org unit that you want to share a competency with, follow these steps:Select the check box beside the org unit.Choose one of the following sharing options from the Options column. This step does not apply to any selected course offerings, which have no descendants to share with.To share the competency or competency structure with the selected org unit only, select the This org unit check box.To share the competency or competency structure with the selected org unit and all child org units beneath it, select the All descendants check box. To share the competency or competency structure with the selected org unit and specific child org units beneath it, select the All descendants of type check box. Select the descendant type from the appropriate list.
Click Insert.
In the Achievement Criteria section, from the list, select a criterion.
Click Save.




--------------------------------------------------


View competency structure results

The Results page displays an overview of the competencies, learning objectives, and activities that users can complete. Completed results are marked with an  Achieved icon. Competency elements that are not visible to course participants will not be displayed.
You can click the Expand Activity icon beside a user's achievement to view more information about how the activity was completed.
To view competency structure results
On the navbar, click Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click a competency or learning objective that you want to view results for.
Click Structure.
In the Structure Summary tab, click the View Results icon beside the competency, learning objective, or activity that you want to view. A list of users and element completion results displays. If you do not see this, enter a blank search in the Search For field.
Click a user's name to view all competency structure results for that individual. 
Shared competency structure results are only available in the org unit where the competency structure was created.
            Video: Track Competency Achievement



--------------------------------------------------


Override a user's result

You can override a user’s result for any competency, learning objective, or activity, and manually set it to complete or incomplete. An override always takes precedence over a user’s actual result; if you override an activity, the system ignores the user’s actual assessment; if you override a learning objective or a competency, it ignores the number of child associations the user has achieved. Override results display with a red asterisk (). If you want to change results for an activity, on the Edit Competency or Edit Learning Objective page, click  Structure, then click on the name of the activity you want to override.
Navigate to Competencies.
On the Competency Home page, click on a competency or learning objective with results you want to override. 
Click  Results.
On the Results page, select the check box beside the users with results you want to override.
Do one of the following:
Click the Manually override selected users' achievement to Complete icon.
Click the  Manually override selected users' achievement to Incomplete icon.
To clear your manual overrides, click the  Clear Override icon.



--------------------------------------------------


Associate an independent learning objective or activity to a parent element

Independent learning objectives and independent activities are competency structure elements that were once associated with parent elements that have been deleted. Independent elements are also known as orphans. Activities associated with independent learning objectives are not orphans unless you delete the learning objectives. You must be using Advanced View in order to accomplish this task.
To associate an independent learning objective or activity to a parent element
Navigate to Competencies.
Click Settings. 

Figure: Click Settings on the Competency Home page.
In the Personal Settings area, select Advanced View. 

Figure: Click Advanced View in Personal Settings.
Click Save.
In the Advanced View navigation pane, click Independent Learning Objectives or Independent Activities.
Click  Add Parent beside the element you want to associate with a parent.
Browse and select the check boxes beside the competencies or learning objectives you want. 
Click Add Selected.
You have associated learning objectives with a parent element.



--------------------------------------------------


Assess Brightspace Portfolio evidence against standards

On the screen to view a learner’s portfolio evidence, after the standards have been aligned, select the appropriate level of achievement:

Figure: The Standards area of the Brightspace Portfolio evidence showing the standard and the standard achievement level. 



--------------------------------------------------


Assess Quiz submissions against standards

For automated standards suggestions to appear on quiz submissions, ensure the following are true:
A percentage scale must be set as the default scale
The quiz must be configured to allow attempts to be automatically graded upon completion. You can set this option on the Assessment tab of the quiz.
It’s possible to view assessments in quizzes in two places:
From the Grade Quiz page to see individual responses. Click an attempt to view the quiz details. Scroll below the question response details to view the outcome achievement level suggestions.Figure: Select the quiz you want to assess from the Users tab for the learner.
Manually select the Achievement Level of each standard on the quiz as necessary.Figure: The Standards page showing different standards for an assessment.




--------------------------------------------------


Displaying rubric scores on the Assess Topic page

When the Assess with Embedded Rubrics feature is on, the View Options menu becomes available on the Assess Topic page. 
The default option is Show Topic Score. This option displays only the Topic Score links. Rubrics and rubric scores do not appear on the Assess Topic page. This option provides a single list of topic scores that instructors can use for visual comparison across learners.

Figure: The first section of the Assess Topic page includes the rubric against which the instructor can assess the learner.

Figure: The middle of the Assess Topic page includes the overall score and the suggested achievement levels.

Figure: The bottom of the Assess Topic page includes a text field to provide feedback to the learner and the learner assignment.
The Show All Scores option displays the learners' topic scores and rubric scores. This option provides the same view as when the Assess with Embedded Rubrics feature is disabled.  



--------------------------------------------------


View course progress against Standards

The Class Progress tool includes a Standards tab. This tab displays a history of the learner's submissions and assessments against all standards aligned to activities in the course. 
Important: The language term used to describe Standards  depends on the value set for the d2l.Languages.Terminology.LearningOutcomes configuration variable. For example, the term Standards  can be changed  Competencies, Expectations, Objectives, or Learning Outcomes.
This enables you to:
View all the standards that are aligned to assessment activities in the course, so that they can understand the learning outcomes that their learners are expected to demonstrate.
View each students'  current assessment against each learning outcome, so that they can alter or individualize instruction, based on thestudent's  performance. 
View a list of all the evidence that has been assessed for a specific learning outcome, so that they can quickly familiarize themselves with feedback they provided for assessments.
This enables students  to:
View all the standards that are aligned to activities in the course, so that they can understand all the standards they are expected to demonstrate in the course.
View their current assessment against each outcome, so that they can understand their progress against each standard.
View a list of all the feedback you have provided for a specific standard so that they can understand where they might need to make more effort. If you have offered feedback for a hidden rubric, that feedback appears in the Overall Feedback section in the Grades or Assignments tool. The rubric criterion title and description appear above each feedback item. Note: Feedback copied from hidden rubrics only displays for students ; 
If the organization has provided the ability for students  to view outcomes aligned with quizzes, students  can see if more than one attempt was made, and the results for each attempt.
Important: The following processes and images display the language term Learning Outcomes instead of Standards. 
To view progress against learning outcomes
Navigate to  Class Progress and select astudent  to view. 
Click Learning Outcomes. The overview for the course lists all the learning outcomes (standards) that are aligned to activities in the course, with a mini-visualization of the last few assessments made for the student  against each learning outcome. Figure: The Learning Outcomes tab in the Class Progress tool.
Click a learning outcome to display the Learning Outcomes Progress page, which provides a list of student -submitted evidence related to the selected learning outcome. It also displays a timeline showing the comparative evaluation levels for each evidence item and a summary of feedback given on each activity. The Trend section displays a trend visualization of assessments. The Evidence section displays a list of all the activities that have been assessed.  Figure: A detailed view of a learning outcome in the Class Progress tool.
Click an individual assessed learning outcome to view more specific details about the assessment. Figure: The feedback and assessment area displaying after clicking a learning outcome.Figure: The bottom of the details page containing feedback, achievement scales, and the assignment submission.




--------------------------------------------------


View assessment details on the Outcomes Progress details page

View feedback and submissions for assignments and discussions topics for individual learners using the assessment details on the Outcomes Progress details page. Each child node displays the typical mini-trend for the progress of outcomes within the node. When a user clicks a specific outcome, the outcomes progress evidence page appears.
 Note: All users will not be able to see a user's progress once a course is inactive. 
The details page provides a complete view of the assessments, including:
Activity description
Learner submission
Rubric assessment
The score the learner achieved
Start and end dates
Outcomes and levels achieved
General feedback from the instructor or evaluator
To view the Outcomes Progress details page
Navigate to Class Progress.
Click on a learner's name.
Click Standards.
Use the Search bar or scroll to find a learning outcome. 
Select a learning outcome to see the evidence related to that outcome
Click an evaluation in the Evidence list to open the Evidence Details page.




--------------------------------------------------


View student achievement for multiple quiz attempts

If quiz questions have been aligned to standards, then the quiz submission appears as a demonstration of that standard and is reflected in the visualization on the Standards Progress Page for the learner.
If the quiz permits multiple attempts, each attempt at the quiz is reflected for each standard. On the demonstration details page, each submission attempt is displayed in the evidence timeline scrolling down the page. To launch the details page, click the title of the standard on the Outcomes Progress page.
Each attempt has the achievement sale level designated in the evidence title. If different levels of achievement were obtained in each attempt, then the attempts appear as different colors in the assessment timeline. The colors reflect those defined on the achievement scale.

Figure: The Learning Outcomes Progress page.



--------------------------------------------------


Allow students to reflect on their learning

Self Assessments is a formative assessment tool that enables you to provide students with a series of questions and immediate feedback for responses. Question types available are similar to quizzes, however, student responses are not graded and self assessment questions do not have a points value or difficulty level indication. The omission of numeric evaluation enables students to make reflective learning and course material comprehension their main priorities during a self assessment.
You can set up self assessments as part of your course's instructional sequence by creating quicklink topics to self assessments in Content. You can also set up quicklinks to self assessments from other places in the course such as in Announcements or Events.
Each self assessment belongs to a single course and cannot be shared among other courses unless you copy your course material into another course.



--------------------------------------------------


Reasons to use self assessments

Self Assessments is a formative assessment tool that enables you to provide learners with a series of questions and give immediate feedback to their responses.
The omission of numeric evaluation enables learners to make reflective learning and course material comprehension their main priorities during a self assessment.
You can use self assessments as a way of enabling learners to provide feedback on how well they think they are doing with course material.
Answering self assessment questions can illuminate learners to their own skills and development.




--------------------------------------------------


Best practices for creating and using self assessments

D2L recommends that you create all self assessment questions within Question Library. This enables you to reuse questions in various quizzes, surveys, and self assessments. All point values are removed when importing questions from Question Library to self assessments. 
To allow users to see hints to questions, select the Allow hints check box when creating a self assessment.
Create self assessment sections to organize your questions into folders. Avoid creating subsections within sections to keep question organization simple and intuitive.
You can also create categories to organize your assessments based on similar or related content.
Create random sections in self assessments to distribute a unique set of questions to individual users. Random sections pull questions from a designated pool of questions stored in Question Library. 
Use the integrated Brightspace Editor to insert a self assessment into a Content topic, Announcements item, or event via quicklink if you want to include other information with the self assessment.
            Video: Use Self Assessments as a Study Aid



--------------------------------------------------


Evaluating self assessments

Since self assessments are not graded and have no point value, D2L recommends that you provide feedback comments for each self assessment question. You can provide feedback at the end of every question. In some question types (like multiple choice), you can also provide feedback for each answer choice within the question, including what details instructors are looking for in an ideal answer. 
All question types allow you to include feedback and hints. Use feedback to provide added information as a basis for improving content comprehension. Use hints to suggest how to approach a question. If you want users to see hints to questions, you must enable hints when you create the self assessment. 



--------------------------------------------------


Create a self assessment

Navigate to Self Assessments.
On the Manage Self Assessments page, click New Self Assessment.
In the General area, enter your self assessment details.
Click Save.
Click Add/Edit Questions.
Do any of the following:To create a new question, from the New button, select the type of question you want to add. Enter the question details and click Save.To add questions from another collection, a text file, or a learning repository, click Import. Enter your importing details and click Save.
Repeat the previous step until you have added all your quiz questions.
Click Done Editing Questions > Save and Close.
            Video: Create a Self Assessment



--------------------------------------------------


Delete a self assessment

Navigate toSelf Assessments.
On the Manage Self Assessments page, select the check box for any self assessment you want to delete.
From the More Actions button, click  Delete.




--------------------------------------------------


Share self assessment questions with other instructors

You can share self assessment questions with other instructors by sending them to a learning object repository (LOR). This requires a separate tool, Brightspace Learning Repository.
Navigate toSelf Assessments.
On the Manage Self Assessments page, click on the self assessment that contains questions you want to publish.
Click Add/Edit Questions.
Select the check box for any self assessment question you want to publish. 
Click  Publish to LOR.
On the Publish page, from the Pick a Repository drop-down list, select where you want to publish your questions to.
Click Next.
On the Metadata page, enter metadata details for the questions.
Click Publish to LOR > Done.




--------------------------------------------------


Manage final grades

You can manage the final grades of your students by calculating final grades for single users, manually recalculating final grades, or entering adjusted final grades.
Calculate final grades for a single user
You can also calculate final grades for individual students. 
To calculate grades for single users
From your course navbar, click Grades.
From the Enter Grades tab, click on a user’s name. 
From the student's user details page, do the following:
 If you see the "Out of date!" message displaying by the Final Calculate Grade do the following:Click the Recalculate the Final Calculated Grade icon. Click Calculate.Enter a Final Adjusted Grade in the fields provided or click the Transfer Final Calculated Grade to Final Adjusted Grade icon. Select  Release Final Calculated Grade. 
Click Save. 
The final grade for the individual student is calculated.
Manually recalculate the final grade
If you have not selected the Automatically keep final grades updated option, you may have to manually recalculate final grades at some point during your course.
To manually recalculate the final grade
From your course navbar, click Grades.
From the Enter Grades tab, do one of the following:To recalculate a grade, click a user's name. In the Final Grade section, click the Recalculate the Final Calculated Grade icon. To recalculate all grades, from the Final Calculated Grade context menu, click Enter Grades. On the Final Grades page, from the Final Grades context menu, select Recalculate All.
Enter an adjusted final grade
You can also enter an adjusted final grade. This enables you to manually edit the final grade of a student.
To enter an adjusted final grade
From the course navbar, click Grades.
From the Enter Grades tab, click the Final Adjusted Grade context menu, and select Enter Grades.
In the Final Adjusted Grade column, under Grade, enter a grade for every user you want to give an adjusted grade to.Figure: The Grade column of the Final Grades page.
If you want to release a grade for a user, select Release Final Adjusted Grade .
Click Save.
The final grade for selected students is adjusted.
Video: Troubleshooting final grades




--------------------------------------------------


Drop the lowest grade

You may want to drop the lowest grade for students to increase their overall final grade for the course.
To drop the lowest grade

On your course homepage, navigate to Grades.


Click the Actions drop-down menu beside a student's name and click Bulk edit exemptions.


Figure: The Bulk edit exemptions option in the Actions drop-down menu in the Grades tool.

On the Edit Grade Exemptions page, for the column that says Exempt, click the checkbox for the graded assessment whose grade you want to drop.
Note: You can exempt or drop more than one grade item.


Figure: The Edit Grade Exemptions page showing the Exempt column.

Click Save and Close.

In the grade item's column for that student, the assessment is noted as Exempt and the grade for the assessment is dropped.

Figure: The Grades tool showing the Exempt status for a grade item.



--------------------------------------------------


Create accessible content in Brightspace

Create and insert a Video Note in Brightspace Editor
 You can use Video Note in a number of places throughout Brightspace, including: Content, Discussions, Activity Feed, and even when grading and providing feedback to students .
Note: The ability to add video notes is controlled by a permission set by your administrator. If you do not see the Add Video Note option, you do not have the required permission.
Create and insert a Video Note using the New Content Experience
Navigate to Content.
In the module where you want to add your Video Note, click Create New > New Lesson.

Figure: The New Lesson option.
In Brightspace Editor, click Insert Stuff.

Figure: The Insert Stuff option in Brightspace Editor.
In the Insert Stuff dialog, click Add Video Note.

Figure: The Insert Stuff dialog showing the Add Video Note option.
Change the Audio only toggle to ON if desired. Then, click New Recording.

Figure: Creating a video note in the Insert Stuff dialog.
Click Next.
Enter the Title, Description, and select the Audio Language for your Video Note. Select the Automatically generate captions from audio checkbox if desired.

Figure: The Title, Description, and Audio Language fields for a Video Note.
Click Next.
Click Insert.
Create and insert a Video Note using Classic Content

From Content, click Upload/Create  and select Create a File.

Click  Insert Stuff. 
Click  Add Video Note.
To record your message, click New Recording.
To finalize your message, click Stop Recording.
Click Next.
Enter a Title, Description, and select the Audio Language.
To generate captions automatically, select Automatically generate captions from audio.
Click Next.
Click Insert.
To upload a Video Note or to select an existing Video Note file in the New Content Experience
Navigate to Content.
In the module where you want to upload an existing Video Note, click Add Existing > More.

Figure: The More option.
In the Course Materials dialog, click Media Library.

Figure: The Media Library option in the Course Materials dialog.
Select the Video Note you want to upload and click Next.
Edit the Title for your Video Note if desired. Then, click Insert.
To upload a Video Note or to select an existing Video Note file in Classic Content
In Brightspace Editor, click Insert Stuff.
Select Upload File or Choose Existing.
If you select Upload File, do the following:
Click Choose File and select the locally saved file you want to upload.Note: You can only upload MP4, FLV, F4V, or MOV files that are less than 5.00 MB in size.
Click Next, and enter a title and description.
Click Next, and then Insert.
If you select Choose Existing, do the following:
Select Video Note Search.
Enter your search terms in the Search Notes field, then select Search. You can also perform a blank search to see all search results.
Select the Video Note you want to insert.
Click Add.
About SRT files
An SRT file is a .srt extension file that contains a formatted plain text list of timecodes (HH:MM:SS,MIL) matched with subtitles. Each item on the list is numbered sequentially starting with 1. You can create your own SRT file with a plain text editor such as Notepad or TextEdit, and save the file with extension .srt. The following is a .srt file example: 
1
00:00:00,000 --> 00:00:07,000
Hello, welcome to this CaptureCast presentation.
2
00:00:07,050 --> 00:00:12,000
Today I will be speaking about changes in eLearning technology.
3
00:00:12,050 --> 00:00:20,000
This is a thirty minute seminar. If you wish, you may take notes during this presentation. 
Add closed captions to a video note
Create a video note in Brightspace Editor using Insert Stuff.

Using a text editing program such as Notepad (PC), or TextEdit (Mac) create a .vtt file with the following format:WEBVTT [Required on first line to indicate file type]00:01.000 --> 00:03.000 [start and end timestamp in minutes:seconds.milliseconds]Insert caption text here [Type the captions you want displayed during this portion of the video]00:04.000 --> 00:08.000Insert caption text here.00:09:000 --> 00:14.000Insert caption text here.


Save the text file as a .vtt file by including .vtt at the end of the file name, and setting the file type to All files.


Return to Brightspace.

From Admin Tools, select Video Note Captions.
Search for the video note created in the previous steps and click it.
Click Choose File, locate the .vtt file created in the previous steps, and click Open.
Click Save Captions.
Click the Video Preview, and select the options menu (...).
Click Captions to change from Captions Off to Captions Default.
Play the video and confirm the closed captions are visible and display at the appropriate times.Note: Ensure you follow the formatting exactly or the captions won't display. You can use any compatible third-party captioning method to complete this process.
Set up and use Anthology Ally (previously Blackboard Ally) to improve accessibility of courses
Anthology Ally is a content accessibility service that guides instructors on how to improve the accessibility of their course content and alter future behavior. Anthology Ally also automatically checks for accessibility issues and generates alternative accessible formats. Additionally, Anthology Ally provides institution-wide reporting available to administrators on course content accessibility and drives further improvements at their institution.

Figure: The Course accessibility score of your course using Anthology Ally.
Set up and administer Anthology Ally
Clients will work directly with Anthology to purchase Ally licenses. Anthology then provides configuration details to add to the d2l.Tools.Content.AllyIntegration configuration variable in Brightspace.
Note: By default, the Instance level of Anthology Ally Integration is ON, and the Org level of Anthology Ally Integration is Off.
Improve the accessibility of course content using Anthology Ally (previously Blackboard Ally)
Anthology Ally is a content accessibility service licensed directly from Anthology. It is designed to help instructors improve the accessibility of their course content. Anthology Ally provides accessibility checks for Course and Lesson content, provides suggestions for improving content, and provides alternative accessible formats to enable learners to use the format that best meets their requirements.
Anthology Ally provides an accessibility score from low to high using a color and gauge icon to indicate the current score of the file:
 Red indicates a low score resulting from many accessibility issues. Files with this rating should be improved as soon as possible.
 Yellow indicates a mid-range score. There are accessibility issues, but there are opportunities for improvement.
 Light green indicates a high score. The file is accessible, but there are still opportunities for improvement.
 Dark green indicates a perfect score. The file is fully accessible, there are no suggestions to improve the accessibility of the file.

Figure: An example of the Accessibility score for a Content item.
The main accessibility score panel also contains a link that opens the Instructor Feedback panel. The Instructor Feedback panel contains the following information:
Accessibility score percentage for the entire file with the corresponding color and gauge icon.
A link to a list of all issues in the file, with a Fix button that you can use to fix, save, and upload the file with the improved accessibility score.

Figure: The Accessibility issues menu with the Fix button beside each issue.
A description of the issue and how to fix it.

Figure: The Accessibility Fix menu, which highlights areas of the content that have accessibility issues.
An upload window that you can use to drag-and-drop a new version of the file, or browse to the updated file.
Report on accessibility of existing org structure
Administrators can create an institutional-level report to proactively identify and remove learning barriers for learners. These reports show the types of issues that occur in the total content, which include:
PDF, .DOC and .DOCX, .PPT, OpenOffice/LibreOffice, and HTML files;
image files including .JPG, .JPEG, .GIF, .PNG, .BMP, and .TIFF; and
 YouTube videos.
The reports show these issues created over time, sorted by the types of content over time, including filtering for calendar year, academic term, and month. This information shows errors that occur in an organization, course, and file in a course by filtering down from a high level to a very generic level. The report shows a rating based on how the course files were without Anthology Ally intervention compared to an estimate on how the accessibility rating can be improved based on the automated changes available by using the Anthology Ally tools. 
Administrators can export the report to CSV for longer term tracking of accessibility improvements.
Using headings and ARIA landmarks with assistive technology
Headings and ARIA landmarks help you navigate pages throughout the system:
Heading 1 and Main landmarks navigate page titles.
Heading 2 navigates through widgets and major page sections.
Heading 3 organizes information within widgets and page subsections.
Navigation, Search, and Complementary ARIA landmarks provide context on a page.
Using keyboard navigation
Certain keyboard keys have specific actions you can use to navigate the system
Use the Tab key on your keyboard to navigate through the options on a page. Use Shift+Tab to return to a previous option. Brightspace highlights page elements that you can interact with (such as links, fields, and buttons) as you tab through them, which makes it easier for you to complete tasks and select options.
Press Enter or Return to select a link or button.
Use the Down Arrow and Up Arrow keys to navigate drop-down lists that have an Apply or Go button to select the option.
Use Alt+Down Arrow keys (Windows and Linux) or Options+Down Arrow keys (Mac) to open drop-down lists that do not have an Apply or Go button, and then use Up Arrow, Down Arrow, and Enter keys to select an item from the drop-down list.
Use the Enter or Return key to open a menu (such as a context menu, an alert, or the course selector list). Then, use the Tab or Enter key to select a link.
Use the Space Bar to select a check box or radio button option.
Use the Down Arrow and Up Arrow keys to change a radio button option.
Do not use Alt+F4 to close pop-up windows or pages. This action closes your browser window.
Use the Accessibility Checker on HTML-authored content
The accessibility checker gives you a way to ensure that the content you author in Brightspace Editor conforms to WCAG and Section 508 accessibility standards. The accessibility checker is available within the Editor for use within Content, Widgets, Quizzes, Assignments, Calendar, Assignments, Discussions and any other tools where a user can access the Editor. 
Enter HTML content in Brightspace Editor.
Click  to start the checker.

Figure: The Accessibility Checker in Brightspace Editor.
If there are any compliance issues, read the report for suggestions on how to fix the issue.




--------------------------------------------------


Access course content using the ReadSpeaker docReader integration

Access course content using ReadSpeaker to seamlessly consume text-based content as an audio file.
Supported document types for ReadSpeaker docReader
  The ReadSpeaker DocReader integration provides audio rendering of supported document types in the Content tool.
If your organization has enabled this feature, you can hear audio playback of the following document types:
ePub (.epub)
Microsoft Excel (.xls, .xlsx)
Microsoft PowerPoint (.pps, .ppt, .pptx)
Microsoft Word (.doc, .docx)
OpenOffice/OpenDocument Presentation (.odp)
OpenOffice/OpenDocument Spreadsheet (.ods)
OpenOffice/OpenDocument Text (.odt)
Portable Document Format (.pdf)
Rich Text Format (.rtf)
When you select ReadSpeaker DocReader, a new content viewer appears with volume and playback controls.  Within a Content topic, on the Content viewer page, click Open DocReader in the topic context menu or on the page.

Figure: The Open DocReader option in the Content viewer topic context menu.



--------------------------------------------------


Glossary of Terms

A new Glossary of Terms is coming soon.



--------------------------------------------------


Documentation changes for K12 teachers

Looking for what's new in Teacher topics? The following list provides links to all K12 teacher help topics that have been newly created or updated. For more information about Brightspace features, refer to our Release Note Updates.
February 2024/20.24.2
Added About Release Conditions topic.
Added Attach Release Conditions topic.
Updated the Manage quiz questions topic with the Provide a random bonus set of quiz questions section.
Updated the Homepage Widget Expansion Pack topic to change the date of retirement to December 2024. 
January 2024/20.24.1
Added About course administration topic.
Updated the Brightspace Virtual Assistant topic to include an updated interface image and workflow change.
Updated the Manage quiz questions topic to add multiple sections about different workflows for how to randomize quizzes.
The Using the Brightspace Portfolio app from home, Download a learner passcard for Brightspace Portfolio Home Mode, Using the Brightspace Portfolio app in the classroom topics were merged into the  Set up the Brightspace Portfolio app topic.
The Access your classroom with your passcard, Brightspace Portfolio: Use passcards to collect evidence, Print an individual passcard for a learner, Print passcards for your classroom and learners, Security precautions built in to the passcard system, Troubleshooting: No passcards appear when I click Print Passcards, Troubleshooting: Do you need to scan a passcard every time you use Brightspace Portfolio topics were merged into the Use Passcards topic.
The Add categories to evidence, Add a new category, Retire a category, Rename a category, Managing evidence with categories topics were merged into the Manage categories topic.
The Add private educator notes or comments to evidence, Approve evidence before adding it to a portfolio, Archive evidence, Collect evidence using the Brightspace Portfolio app in your classroom were merged into the Manage evidence topic.
Updated the Create and manage awards topic to include information about the new Export and share awards as digital credentials option.




--------------------------------------------------

